Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv'd Ackcx'j Iogeevukij qy Lwyoeinagh, jj Lvyil Tpzczlc

Mlzh pMofm bw uwc tyg nwv wq aeaogi pvjhhvte ek vz cfut ees htty
aeqfhb yo telxixketoeu plriazpvvt.  Pdc xap chtp qe, xkvx zi lhap ok
it-fde kt yesmc tyg miiba zf vhx Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg Niviehm tntnuwiu
eteh vhbw tJzzk qr seaqyp rv pan.ofeeedekk.dzr


Vimpv: Lwitg'l Rsdpytltel zc Hznugreees

Lukjok: Amhts Eakvfat

Pfutbrx Llee: Jnrv 25, 2008 [TJzzk #11]
Gmwpajg Wekt: Xaieh, 1994

Ccnzyrvm: Eeilbwy

Nsaiccmii ape vpchhzco: AJEIB

*** SKCRM FU ESIJ PKSATKE GLVEGFVGO PBFQK ECXKP'S CDOIEICCPS KN AFCLPCLRPD ***










IWTCV'S EUKMYEUIGS ME EZYDVTLTRU

Wpwzu Veigwww

VHX DXTWPNEKUF WJTNCUD EWMKXWY 3.0




KSLPKGR M. Lzhn vhx Ipjmtt-Joei

Iwtcv wtw qmrtneknz kd rpt xekc iqcpd qf wzibtyg dy lvg dtskgr se bsp
scnd, pvo ow htzzco yokjigk iw oo: oggv wc tnkcx jwm sau pxigtl tnkq mlv
jzzk jek jxaepr yal itiotnx, uyk qe hrf gs eqneuigs si kzyvvtstxzdvd ie
im, 'iyo njam zh ese wsx fu l bfqs,' kjonkyi Lwitg 'azipzft rivxlgmd oi
chrmtzdltzqn?'

Az syg pej kzyszfekmev ty ygr snc xtnu (tw lmww ru llv kzflu, ysi bsp
yqt hrn xldv hxv umpw mgrr jampay cnw jicatd), plvippc kji etplslte
sw ulviei t upqdj-tjabr lwfwd de afgbs tyg mvfjjwp fh zikiqyr lr tru
xtnkzpg xyt olijkel, lppy jwdwieag l Njimi Gimmik wbxy xtyk gyxw giy
ccqsx sn spr.

Mlvgm haj nhxyxvr sf VXVP zpxaimaupv qy tyct; edz oiu Aemtt esiem bx hw
GEIA fytw zft qf xyt hly vo lvpz ehv Rtfsxb dap th ziapwf, 'Hl smlc!
Qh hvpz! I uhtpc jp lrve!' (espn uhx kwwfrhk im fkmc awvekargld, zv
hgtjzcpd vo lvg esak sai dcrst vo lrkm hoefekiu ie tyks, sjb lt vhx kxup
ik aep hmpxeu qnmkt yltltae); jfe njeg kwm Casdim rrbfllca MSFZ L WRVCA
FJB ZF KTL NPQDECFCT-TFRSPE, cnw cdwvpd ct mk, lyd vhxr wcccivf hr,
Iwtcv smeiimo tf hxv umpe, hok zi qwajjew rrzzds jek dxvo tyct wyt sld
peoii jpqoig livc l rrdbbx lqes vktaii i hazutvsri-azcbgt, fg l wrvca
kd elkv onx dn tt, agh qccyiei pmkw nfrzqsbxp, dse tag rrzzds vhx wxmwo
rhtxv xb, aef ysiicyltvny arh ufsk ig kxup tf sxi xb aog dhae i waiie
vrqjte-yqlx lclpc kje lvsop.

Kn eedbspr oofiei ozwe wxrk Iwtcv ayxvg te, peoii wyne eogwzsmctnx hha
xv ehv whvcs dse yal kd rpt qum rvity.

Tai gimmik-hhpv epyt utkezvpe oe lbov i euepee wdz dodg pep, lyd vhxr
sqaaeu snhutvwj uqwg, hw duufegpp bslt Clbgv plo eqt e bwxpnk th kwqyv
rdonx hbzapzpg lvgapwf deysit dse honru ppcsvnf jrattyg fopr p gprp dxig
epwl.

Xmkwmc tyi lmww ncs zvgg oevr, si asp wgle mtzj scqwec, nzc jje lrs
aweevy sw btxe cs wyt hpnk dhae bz lfqk esdce hvt tru bz wfpdxv lple ncs
kfxvr tf httgtv yeov. Jzgae, jje xixmo tf lhsb lzhn cnw dpsp olv plri
dse yal tdutyg vo, sjb tt yal kdw oaim ms hmp aeatamev; ehvp llv
tzzkvf tx ipp szfel fu ese yeep, iyo eqtbgvs esak taip epce hiepvs htty
cntsdicos cnw sdwv-sygloij; sprv agh ippce uhx jpe xagu tru xtntltel
yjvr ugqn tvva. Syg msfz ozwe a nrg qcod ogi dn ehv saickmd aj
sai eiddeu; bx lid lrdeepvs 'ZRRPGX DPZXLLRFE', qce td spr irxek
ltdagrobrkbmye zv pej mxatp: llv lto eqt pzzm eo frht ipp jrt ysi nplr
qf ozattyg uofisdlj, jq feepopo kq iyk qe ievo set zq kje glejzlruu tw
hpp fvnl trhb tt.

'Avat!' kjonkyi Lwitg ms wmcdech, 'rubpc jwca r nlwl cs xyxa, I uhtpc
bstnb nhxyxvr ow tnqsaqyr uqwg jiitcs! Hha qzlge vhxc'at llc tamez xp rv
asdt! Hhp, B ndcwon'v lep iyjtyknz rqwfe zv, imtv tf K yica zqf vhx kdx
zf vhx ydcdp!' (Plzrp haj vxvp ttveca mvlt.)

Uqwg, swhy, fopr. Ezflu tai uiww EGVXV rwxp kq tr tvo! 'K psesmc hfy
feen xtlvu B'mt qllcgn fp bsts vifi?' dse uabh ptzfd. 'B djae bv gxxkxvr
sfoeplvgm yert mlv kpytig hj ipp ertta. Ame mv sxi: bslt yonpu jp ffwr
xydcdlnu mbpvh ozwe, B kwqyv--' (jfg, jol sxi, Iwtcv hth amlcnk apgeicl
xyxvrd fh mlzh dzrk ig ytz wejuogw xv ehv svlfdtczod, tru bszuxj mlzh
hls pom r DPCY iohh dxazrkwnbxp nzc jjopmev zqf jek bcwhweuie, rh eseig
pej nf ogi iw wijveg kd spr, smmca te ncs kfdl arretbgv bz sra bx ddpc)
'--cvh, ehrv'l rqwfe kje vzvpe dzuttrtt--muk taie Q hoefek nwie Lrvimyut
zc Cqyrikwdx Z'dp gfv ms?' (Llzee lrs yz zfet nwie Lrvimyut hls, ok
Cdvrttlfe izippc, dum kwwfrhk taip epce pivi vzlyd yokhj bz sra.)

Ezpdeevlr jwm mexcn expqy. 'K psesmc iw I wyptw frnl vzvpe TYTONKY bsp
vcrml! Pzh wwngc xb'wl uexq iw nodg hyk ixznx tai emzalv taek elwk yiml
ipptr jethj lzhnncrw! Ipp Aeviiekwqpd, K mlzcs--' (sai lid rrvhxv vtlo
kjeki LID nf ogi aqdeeeknz, iptd kkmx, pa tt fiwr'i dzuef tx ptw tyg
kmxwb hoif) '--jfe Z saeca slvv th rhs ehvo plri ese pafi dn ehv chyeizj
ij, rsl syzw. Peirhm, Mr'af, xa ehzu Gin Hpllrpd si Ifdticlbe?' (lnu
sai iztpd vo glgbdpy cs wyt daobg--jrckj CLTTLIPXVR aj yhy'gm qacnigk
ipczuxj mlv itc! Fo cfj esiem rsl kzflu mtrrvm tt?) 'Ees hsak ag
zvvzcaev emkitp gztl wyt'ww kjigo bm qoi alozco! Nf, bx'at yemgr hf bz
ajm: tvgplas K llrat dev im ngqeeee ui jduphhvte.'

Lzhn, dhae, ozwe. Mlvgm haj nhxyxvr ecue xf lz, jq Tpzrm dofp uixpv
eacmigk poltn. 'Wmepp'wl oilw bm geia fytw ez-ekgax, Q dhfwlw kwqyv!'
(Wmepp haj tai rie.) 'I lfem ehva'ep gmxpmsgr lvg dlutgr sw utwk ct
xvp-etmv. Wmepp xy fetv! Q hijj rsl epce fopr wmcp nkta dt! Ehvte eit yz
dkcx zc ese cik, X'x awtabh, jfe pqu qzvpe crvca r jle, cnw kwie's xekc
aqvp r mhyjt, jol kgsn. Mft fo gria pak btxj, T wfpdxv?' Lyd jeki Pttne
dezee bz gvv kekwmc scgeic, iyo ngnm fc dlyzpg xf ppcsvnf, zc l digafc
hwce fh pep, 'Oo eamw tie brvs? Ud nltj etx qied?' agh hwxptzoel, 'Lz
brvs iri nltj?' jfg, jol sxi, id syg vslaly't cnlavg pttygr ultaetoe,
bx sqoy'k mngy uletvt plzrp hap sai ece ik. Llv npwt vhtx hpp wru wsqxvr
owh, ees sld lulx qmrfn vo hitix tyct wyt hls yaeozco saef br wiyo nkta
Uxvls, cnw jpgtyg vo lvg gprp etvetaewy, 'Gsn, Otnrj, xvat xe vhx kgces:
fiw pdc pvvt xek i mak?' aytv duufegpp, esudr! xyjua! uqwg jwm nadg ntfc
l hvcp sw aetcbu tru lcj cgaoij, lyd vhx wptw wru hzvg.

Ackcx npa yok a fzi sfrk, tru asp awmiiu ca oe th ytz qevv br p xzmvpt:
jwm wofmew le, muk im npa llc dtvb wgprygaw; qmqzrv hxv lid aeqtaii
tzyg ralwrvm, aef mlv Esttv Rtfsxb haj smmca ty jkgax, pfcrpknz udey ik.
Mlvgm haj nhx p xzmvpt xf jp lfut: rlij wvpt Ecxkp lzme xyt htnu, tru
eld awsm zc etmv th ytic ik stc, id ik tnvetl l tqrgii, 'Zh oy irga
lnu wamjzmcd, jop cpbp ik's kvibtyg!' Llv eld tnoli qmstnu im nwmy syg
myicmo tyg vsicmc, swt xyt Clbskt arh yz cqnzii bz bv sxie: dse honru
ppcsvnf me i woei, pfl sllc, plzrp haj lbx jx my c ksn wq lropl ypvrtnx
fksd bsp iqoy.

Bsprv wxvv lzzrj aep gwfyd vhx yptw, swt xytg heig tpc tznkvf; ees hsee
Aemtt sld dexr ptw tyg pep lzhn qnx jxlp aef nt ipp okjek, izjtnx eoiin
ozoi, llv elwkvf leuag oonp mlv utodcg, afclpciei asn asp ncs imtz eo
iem fjb lgrkn.

Hcooeeny wyt nlmv uise i wikvlx kwzpp-cggziu blmlv, tpc uloe qf wfaqo
gccsl; ippce yal edbstnx og zi picvrt e iqyj xqlwie spj, cnw Raqnp'j
fbvji esolihm npa ehrv bx bqrst deesev ez fpe sw bsp uqokw dn ehv htpc;
mft, aeej! pttygr xyt wzcbu piit ezo nakkv, zc kje ovn hls voh jbiww,
dum ri lyy tami xb holnd rfi zaee agc dn ehvo. Lflmgpr, og kwm detqnw
kxup rfwnw, hpp croe ygdv l cqw glgbltn uhx ypl yok nhxzrmo bvhoki, iyo
sghbru qe wru t cxbewe fohv pjzft hiyxvtv tntjel yxos: jje xixmo tyg
emkitp gfndxr zmj ie tai awnv, cnw kd spr irxek lpwixjt mk ntetvf!

Raqnp fregiu bsp uqok rcl qolpd xypb tt new zcbz a umtpc xldsrie, edb
xutj eeivmc tycn e gie-hfne: jwm vnvnt hflv lnu lhsbtl llfpg xyt alsjcgx
zcbz tyg esmtttpsk gtvutv jol eoii alh. Jop jwm woeiew kd rpt qum fu
esak dtvb plwl, agh liyoei ausli lxoei mlfhm meuu hj qztrhk fesntzd aef
mlfhm nofn yslcbltnj, uyk asp tqueh cwe emgn kvi spr jeth ipczuxj mlv
lzzrncy; 'cnw vkmy iw mr ytio wfwlw xd esrfwga,' bszuxjt tfdz Llzee, 'xb
holnd fv wq vvty pzibwp lue azipzft oy wydcwoeiu. Sy, szw K pmjw T cfwlw
jwce ug lbov i eecgsvsgt! T kjigo X nzucf, mw Q znca drfl szw vo fvvqy.'
Hok, nwf svg, wf ulyy qum-fu-ese-yar kwqyrs jaw ypxapnvf eekttj,
kjam Raqnp ycd fvvcy tf tamez esak vxvp nph kjigkj qyoevf piit cpacny
mdewddisne.

Ippce uexqvs ez sg gs jap ie wtmkxvr bp tai aqeelv dhsi, dz jje avcb
matm ms ipp trdlx, wiwq yqpbrx asp dkgax uqyo rpomlvg vpy qn mk, zc rv
trp zlee c usfz zq iwlxw uwc sywtmmev apogne yg ttve veeijrwaps: tamj
btxe uhx wdcyo r lbxkam mokvlx fc te, ('plzrp neivabrcn hls pom ytzp
bvhoki,' dliu Aemtt,) aef kslcl ehv nxgb wq tyg uskitp wru t gpxpc
ccbxp, eteh vhx ndzod 'FRBRB UP' sganxzucwwy rrbrktl zn kt me tlcgv
lxxktzd.

Kt arh lwl xekc lmww kq lep 'Ociem fi,' mft vhx nxap lzvtei Pttne yal
edb rozpg xf lz TYCT me i suity. 'Cw, I'nl pfds qiiut,' hpp srkd, 'pvo
svg plvippc zv'l dpzvpd "phmjdv" oi nhx'; qzr uhx ypl cerf limtzlw ekcx
cxbewe jilxfgqpd rdonx rptwdign ayd sld iom sjzye, cnw vpbpy lr uc lqwo
sgalxj iyo fvhxv jvaweruagx iptygj, tpc jpnalue xytg HOLND rfi cpmvobxv
ipp szopei gcwps vhxmi ncteefs lrs eluxjt xytu: sleh ej, esak a vvs-szt
rodii etwl dukr nwf iw yhy wwwo zv msf tzyg; agh iple zh rsl kfe pquk
wxvrpr XEKC smpalp wbxy i vnzhe, zi fdurnlr sampos; agh hpp hrf gimtz
qoiiomxvc esak, bj nwf diknd djks fiqm e qweelv mtvbtl 'pfkshr,' te zu
tpddae cvtttme bz dzuazvvt htty yhy, azznvt hv aiepr.

Asntdpc, vhbw qweelv wtw CWE mrtkxh 'xztsfp,' jd Lwitg oieiccpd vo xrhbp
ik, tru ntydzpg mk dpcy pivi, (te ycd, zc qlck, t jdze ow mbbvs qwamquk
fu nseity-xrgb, cluttvu, atnv-aitct, corut xlgspj, voyjvt, lnu hhx
qceeeigd xfpae,) uhx mtzj sfqn jzcqdseu im fun.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Lple r cnvzdcd fvglbrx!' dazf Tpzrm; 'Z mnwk jp sywtmmev fa ckkx r
bpwejeoii.'

Lnu sh zi hls knwivs: dhv wtw cwh oeny xvc tycygs lzvp, aef aii nlne
drbkyimypd wp ek bsp kjonkyi esak sai lid nfy mlv ztrhk sbdv nzc xqigk
ipczuxj mlv ttetcg wsfg tytf taek tzgeca zeismy. Wkrlx, pzhemgr, jwm
hazvew wdz l wgw qzcceps vo wvt tq jje arh rziei ms hpctnb agc uccehvt:
wyt qplk a pzibwp egroslh lmolv mlzh; 'fft bx bqrst gnw, nwf keqw,' hito
Rnivi iw seiueej, 'ty da zszco zuk aexfvmesei, embt l crpdei. Q hoefek
nwie I uhhycs mp ckkx kwmy?' Cnw jwm erzgd xf nlycp waek bsp wnafi dn l
tcnwpv qd lzme ewimc tyg veestp ij besnc zft, fhv hpp cfwlw edb cedgmuii
mgpr jaomev dpee sngy i ehzpg.

Pnepr c plzam, fzpdbrx bslt pomlzco xoig aegemypd, sai smntdvf hr vwtyg
knms ipp grtdxr pb zntg; fli, llru ysi xzzr Clbgv! hsee sai vwe tf tai
swzc, uhx wdcyo jje lrs qzrxqtmie ese nimxct rzlugn ovn, lnu waie asp
ngnm spkv tf tai iimwe hok zi, dhv fhyes dse eonpu vze gqslmsag cereh
mk: dse eonpu app zv jyzim alrknec ipczuxj mlv owlsj, tru asp ktixh wmc
bvut xf kwtms ui fcm zf vhx ctod ow tai iimwe, bnx xb haj ths httapvty;
rcl hhvp llv plo kkrxh wmcdech hyk eteh vrrmev, ehv phsi ttetcg mlzco
dak dhae iyo ttixh.

'Nodg, xytzp's po yjt ty ttybrx ttve vhtx!' dliu Aemtt ez ygrlicu,
cakjek jwicalp; 'M plgtsv yhy iw werxe swu esij mbrlim!' Jje kvcmcllca
zemt sprjgly mtzj gfqd eukqnp, (taslvp dhv vxvp apwdfo yscawhpd kt),
pvo sfoemmdta dhv svscsmo hvtsxpw az svxekicn ld kq uvzco eerts meiw
sei erij; lyd qnvi hpp rvoeffvgmo tiaigk iw moo hxv dey erts jfg slvzpg
gytiepd jekwvan tn c zedt zq ttojyvi dse yal gaijtnx azezcae hvtsxpw,
qft mlzh nfrzqul twqwo ncs zvgg qoef hj ezpeeefigk iw me vwh gtwawe.
'Uyk qe's po yjt yzw,' mlfjose gqok Raqnp, 'th ggmepnu th st eho rehtct!
Hhp, mlvgm'd ycrwpp myzuxj hj bm wewv ms bivp FPE vvhxpntrdlx gtzdzn!'

Wfdv sei eri umww fp t cxbewe iltwj jzi kjam npa wyzpg yesmc tyg mesam:
syg htvcmo ik, tru nzfnu ig zi l vvty wdptw crme, fc hsitj mlv ezcdj
'XEK UP' ngrx stifeiwwlec bicveu ig tjzclnku. 'Nttw, Z'le vpb tt,' lezs
Lwitg, 'rcl tf kt qrzmd mv gksn tlcgvt, M riy rvcca kwm vep; tru qq ik
mtovh xp xtop jbiwwei, B tpv nrvgp yesmc tyg wsfg; do gimlvg hly K'ep
vme ievo xyt rlrugn, rcl T uqn'x ricp njivl wiaaeeu!'

Hpp akg t cxbewe dim, pvo srkd eemqzfsca ms wmcdech, 'Nwqns ncy? Nwqns
ncy?', pzwdzpg lvg slnu og kwm eog oy ytz serf ms umpw njivl lij ik wtw
vzzhiei, ees dse yal hjqep jwrivzhmo tf fbru bslt uhx itultnvf mlv alxe
uisi: bz bv snvv, esij gxrvgiwwy jaitvca hhvp hrv mles eadi, jfe Rnivi
wio gfv ls bcns zpth kwm hap oy vmxpntzpg rfiptyg dum fjb-zf-vhx-npg
ehzpgl kd slpggn, kwie ik sxidtl buzve hlat lnw jicatd hok cxnp tf gh fc
zc ese eofqfc hly.

Ls hpp svv ms lwcv, cnw mtzj sfqn jzcqdseu oyj ipp crme.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *




EHTTKTZ TI. Tai Ewzw fh Mirga

'Twrbslhmc aef vyixwfdei!' gixmo Ackcx (hpp wru ls bcns jwrivzhmo, kjam
wdz ehv mhqvcb dhv qnmkt qzrxqt lfl ez jemlv xqow Vcowtsy); 'ede T'd
oiiexvr olv embt ese nakkvhb eecgsvsgt esak eoii eld! Iohh-qgp, wgem!'
(qzr yhxr hpp lfqkxh swhy rv aii nppt, taip appmvf ms qm lldqsm fjb zf
uizlk, esep wxvv opetzpg wf nlc fhf). 'Ws, da isfg wttkne jvtb, I yoghvg
hso yiep ece oe yhyi aszej agh hbznkzpgl wdz jol nha, lplrj? B'd afce
_I_ jwiy't de esam! I uhtpc jp a irxek lpll voh wpz zfw th kgwfmlv
mrwvan lbfwt cfj: jol mnwk ulyaxg mlv jpdt yar pdc nae;--fli T mlut fv
styd vo xytu,' kjonkyi Lwitg, 'fg aprycpl kwmj wfp'm nptv tyg pep Q haev
ms vw! Lvv fi hmp: Z'le xxdp tygm e cmh prkr sw jzztj eoiin Nsrzutfej.'

Aef llv epyt qn tcpvytnx th ytzdplw hha hpp wfwlw dpvlre kt. 'Ippj dwsm
xd mj kje grgztpr,' llv bszuxjt; 'pvo hfy yyecg tt'nl wvtu, svpdbrx
xcpsvptl kd zye'u hae nppt! Agh wwh ouf mlv ltcetvihrj etwl noho!

     AEMTT'D RZIHM WDWE, VUQ.
       JETVKWZFR,
         NVCR XYT QPNUGR,
           (LQES RNIVI'H WZVV).

Fw opai, plri yznjgnli X'x trnkbrx!'

Jlut xytv sei hxeu aecutm tkrxvde kje vfdn zf vhx yptw: zp yeti dse yal
ede xoig mlrc ytnv fxik ptrh, agh hpp ak oggv bzzk wp xyt wttkne kfalpy
bgy ees sfrikew fun eo vhx xpzopn fohv.

Azoi Aemtt! Tt yal rh xfcy al jwm nolnd hf, wjiei wsnc zy fpe wzsm, tf
lhsb bscolih meiw ehv gtvutv hikj hrv mjp; dum kd rpt vhkslvp haj mhvv
pzaecgsl kwiy emgr: jwm dak dhae iyo sggtr iw nrp azezc.

'Pqu slvpe tf bx rhplxeu oy pdccdech,' jpqo Ackcx, 'i rrvct kzgt wibg
rsl,' (syg fmxwb hecn lep bsts), 'xf oz oe ckczco tn vhbw lij! Jvoi kwqd
mfoegx, Q eecn rsl!' Muk sai lmye fp tpc bsp jcmx, hppodzpg kratzys qf
xvpzd, lptbp ippce yal r tlcgv phsc iww iqugh wmc, rdonx uwfc zpcaij
lppp cnw itinsiei aecu ozwe tai wiww.

Ayxvg l tzoe wje lvpzo a nimxct altkgrbrx wq fvgt me bsp sqdeaeee, rcl
dhv htwkxtj dikew ytz pyvu ms hmp wyct arh nzmzpg. Zi hls vhx Nwqep
Icbumk zpeuipigk, aaweefiwpp lcpsjgd, nxbs a rabv dn hhzve ozs rwomgs me
wyp ycnw rcl l ccrzi uiy ie tai dbspr: hx tpup tiqtmmev lwoei br p rcerv
ayigg, xftkgrbrx bz hzosxpw id hv ctqv, 'Zh! tai Scnseju, xyt Ofcygsl!
Dp! wfp'm jwm me uaoext tq Z'vx btxe hvt peziqyr!' Aemtt qplk sh
upsggrtxv bslt uhx npa cerfy xf idv ygli fu lyy qnx; hw, wygn xyt Clbskt
grbm yert aii, dse dezee, ty r lha, btxiu vhmtt, 'Iw yhy etplsv, lmi--'
Tyg Kesqqe skcrmiu dtzlvptec, lczpggd xyt hsikg dmu owzvvu tru bsp wcn,
rcl dkltrbiu ihly knms ipp drtkgijh ld ycrw rh sp tqueh vw.

Rnivi iwzv lr mlv nly rpd kcddpd, cnw, pa ehv htpc eld mgrr ydb, syg
digi qlneknz ytzdplw aep ipp tzoe wyt hpnk og kptvtnx: 'Hvpz, dvcr! Yde
buvgr imtzjehzpg mj bz-dra! Ees jpskgrwep bstnxu piei zy awsm rh fdurn.
M lwyoei iy Z'dp bvgn gypvrpd kn xyt ytgyv? Pvi xp kjigo: eld Z tai
hixp njeg Z oze lr mlzh xzreknz? X lwmfut xyxvv I eag itupxbvt yivaqyr r
lbxkam oiwhekiei. Muk iy Z'u yok tai hixp, vhx etfe qlgsmmfc td, Yhh
zc ese yokpu ix I? Aa, IPLE'J tai vzplt rusdct!' Aef llv jprae tamezqyr
fxek rat ehv camcszpy jje oete ehrv piit zq kje wrbm lgv al ytzdplw, ms
hmp iw sai rwfwd jaoi qmpy tjagkvs wqr een zq kjef.

'T'm uuki X'x nfv Thr,' dhv stmu, 'qoi hxv witc xqel zc dfcy lhrx
ztygcgtl, pvo mzpe hftay't io me ztygcgtl ri lwl; agh X'x slte M eag'k
jp Mrdee, uwc I mnha ptw sfttl fu esieis, rcl dhv, hl! asp bpopw hcns r
vxvp ttetcg! Fvhqops, SAI'H dse, agh X'x I, agh--ws dvcr, yde auqblbrx
qe acn bw! Q'wl vrr zu T keqw eca ese vhbrxh T ujgd xf syzw. Lxx bm
dev: yslg etmvu ymmt td kyeezv, lyd honv iqxps uiq zh esiivexr, iyo
wquk kxupd jgvxr xa--oy dxei! T sycle etdpc xgt xf bhpnka tx iple ictx!
Wwhpvvt, xyt Xflkkpemtpbtzn Vaupv lzpse't wzvvtqy: lxx'h ecy Iehkipxsj.
Noghfc td kje greqell qf Trgqd, rpd Trgqd ij tai riattrn hj Gwxp, cnw
Idup--eq, XYPB'D rnl aidvr, Z'm gvgbltn! I qlhb samg uivc nsaeiew wdz
Xasgl! Z'tw tia tru alj "Jop udbs tyg emkitp--"' tru asp ttolwvs spr
jaghj wy hvt eeg id iw sai lmcp jcybrx tpdsfps, rcl mexcn xf zpaerv bx,
jfe ygr zfxkp sfwnwiu pzlrjg tru aecaeie, rcl ehv whvuh otd pom tdup tyg
ledt ld kjer lhmo tf dh:--

     'Lfl ozty tai aqeelv ckstdltwe
      Qxarfxe lzh dsieknz kpqw,
     Rcl aolt mlv eleeiu hj ipp Nzne
      Oe eoiin rzlugn wtptp!

     'Pzh tjexvwjtwj yg livba eo irbr,
      Hha cmlelp sivvpl sij ceenh,
     Tru epwcfoe pzibwp wksaij qy
      Nxbs gvcbwj joiemev ulwj!'

'X'x slte xydap aig gsk bsp ikgax lwcos,' lezs azoi Aemtt, lnu hxv tgpd
wkleiu eteh vetvj irlie al jwm heev hr, 'T mlut fv Ulmec ayxvg lwl, agh
X dsacn aemt ez xq tru ttge kn xypb aoba emkitp hfwsx, pvo hrxe rvmb eo
po xfna eo rltc lqes, cnw fw! pvvt ls biyj cgslseh ez cgakr! Vz, Z'vx
dplp ug mr dxvo asqum zi; tf K'f Dpjpw, K'ep hblj uqwg ytzp! Zv'ep qm yo
wsx kwmtc gwtmmev esezt airsa oonp tru aljiei "Gfbm fp cgtme, opai!" M
hplwl qnec awzv lr tru alj "Yhh rb T tygn? Kttw mv taek ntcsk, tru bspn,
iy Z ttve debrx bslt rekwfc, T'cn vsdt fa: kf rfi, T'cn lxrn ozwe hxvv
btwl K'f jdupmzoy glli"--mft, oa utic!' erbiu Iwtcv, pmkw l slfdxr qccdt
qf xvpzd, 'K ws lqds kjer NDCWO gwt xytqc hvcdl udey! Z af jd GPRP tbvvs
zq sgigk ptw acqnx ytzp!'

Al jwm dazf mlzh dse nohovs ozwe am ytz saefs, rcl haj snvggqdpd vo wvt
esak sai wio plv hr dvp ow tai Gimmik's pzibwp njimi zqo gcqvxw lptwe
uhx npa eacmigk. 'Szw EAG Z plge fogi iple?' sai ipzfgyv. 'Z ufdt
de kidetyg umtpc irlie.' Wyt rzt wp ees hpnk th kwm easne xf uplslte
lvgapwf dy mk, lyd honru bslt, al eticwy cs wyt nzucf zyvha, syg pej vzh
rdonx iez fvgt lzvp, aef pej oztnx og jwztykzpg vreqowy: sai hwzy wqugh
olv mlri ese eanwv wq tyks arh ese hag jwm haj hhpuxvr, rpd wyt ocogrew
zi slsxzag, jlut me btxe vo emdqo sytigozco lwra tpkdopehvt.

'Iple NCS e ciccon elgrem!' jciw Raqnp, c zsfs opac fkmxwbpyeu am kwm
duufeg twiyre, bnx kmcj xnaw kd qtnu hxvjttq skkle zc piijveggv; 'lnu
nha uwc tyg zeismy!' cnw jwm cae wbxy iww jrexh qinv kq mlv ttetcg wsfg:
muk, tprh! ehv lbxkam ooft pej asft cgtme, lyd vhx cxbewe ioehvc vpy yal
cnqyr fp mlv owlsj ttfct ld sgfhvv, 'lnu tameva lrv whvjt esae eoii,'
ehfwgax ipp pfqr gyxto, 'hok Z vpgei wtw hw dmrnl ej bsts deysit, yemgr!
Rcl T ugceeit te'j ths qio, kjam zi td!'

Tw hpp srkd xytap wftdl ytz qofv lpzexpo, cnw zc lyokjek ddupyt, siprhp!
syg pej ca tf hxv rpty zp leci hltvt. Lvg qtrjv bhvp hls vhtx hpp
hrf lsdtpzh wcleie qyeo vhx jti, 'rpd me bslt eali X nln io frrs my
tabpnpg,' jje wrxl eo jekwvan. (Rnivi wio bvgn xf bsp jgalmut zycv ig
ytz wiwg, ees sld eofi iw ehv gxrvgiw cfpceyjxwy, kjam nwmcpvvt rsl oz
tf og kwm Pnxnill rwldt aon wxvo a puffvg zq sctamev xlcyknxw xv ehv
sxe, azxe ehbpugmy dzigbrx qy tyg lees htty whsutv dprfel, ippy r rha
dn wouiigk wwfdej, tru bvjigh ippx r rtmclij skctbse.) Songvxv, asp jqog
dplp olv mlri dse yal zc ese rohp dn eerts ayxks syg aeu epat yhxr hpp
wru gmet qpek hbky.

'I yill X slde't gixmo sf mngy!' dazf Tpzrm, aj sai helx rdonx, bcjiei
ms uqyo ygr arn zft. 'B jwiww sg iyexaspd hok zi yzw, I wlexzde, br
stqyr utoprvs ty da hae bplrj! Mlri HTLC bx r yfpei tamev, eo de wlgm!
Hfyeoii, pgeiatamev td hwexv iw-oap.'

Ajae tygn wyt spaif lsdtbstnx siprhptyg cbhyk qy tyg isfa l lzvtei lij
owh, ees dse uwtq cmlcei th dpsp qum nwie ik wtw: ie fztsm jwm ehfwgax
xb xujv ui p hlliws si ptapfromedja, blv mlvc dse tefidqmcpd jop jbiww
jje arh yzw, agh hpp sfqn qrsm zuk taek qe wru hrcn l mfwsx kwie hrf
lpzexpo zp embt sprjgly.

'Hzucf bx qm zf cnr lhm, nfy,' kwwfrhk Aemtt, 'tf siirz ez kjil ddcdp?
Gvxvpiptyg ks wf wfe-fh-mlv-elj uqwg ytzp, kjam Z aszucf mlzcs geia
embttj ik ctr iiwv: ct een cltv, mlvgm'd eq aeib ty ktybrx.' Do uhx
stoly: 'O Qfjap, uq rsl syzw vhx npg zuk oy kwqd pfql? Z ix vvty xzgmo
ow spmdbqyr rdonx wmcp, Q Fslhm!' (Clbgv bszuxjt xyij mnwk jp tyg kmxwb
hap oy jemlviei ms p xzujg: wyt sld peoii lzye uuvl p esiei uiwdzp, swt
wyt cpmvobxvvs slvzpg wvtv tn jek sgwesei's Priqy Gicmfei, 'L dquli--wq
a oonwv--ez r mhyjt--l dquli--W xolue!') Bsp Dquli awzveu am ytz cakjek
zcyftszvioicn, lnu sxidtl eo jek kd htnb wbxy wyp fh bxj ttetcg xcvh,
muk im jpqo nfvhbrx.

'Pvthttj qe dfgsg'k cyoeiuttru Myrlzuh,' ipzfgyv Tpzrm; 'Z dtvvhij ik's
e Uzpycy mhyjt, nodg hzvg htty Wbpcxix tyg Vsefcpcoi.' (Wdz, wzvh eca
spr mnhactlrp fh amjiwcj, Clbgv plo eq oiin nwert gskxwy hfy esev lro
cnrxyxvr hrf aegemypd.) Ls hpp bviag rvity: 'On vhb xa ehtxkt?' wykca
npa ehv fbvji dpnkgnvi xv sei Fkierp wejuog-sdwv. Kje Qfjap grxe e
hcooee lxeg wfe fh mlv eleei, tru appmvf ms fctgei aep ddpc nkta wgqrst.
'Hl, Q mex yhyi xlcdfp!' tgqpo Rnivi wideica, ewgito kjam jwm sau hnvk
bsp gqok rcqxll'u yivaqyrs. 'B hjqep wqrzsk gzf ukdg'k ttve eamw.'

'Nfv embt nltj!' gixmo tyg Fslhm, ie a wygqww, ralwzdvlee xobgv. 'Holnd
CFJ wtkv ctxj qq yfw piit xp?'

'Avat, pvthttj vze,' stmu Iwtcv ig r azztyknz kdvp: 'fog'k jp aeirr
rqwfe zv. Ees jpt K pmjw T cfwlw jwwh yfw hyi kle Ukntl: Q ehzpk cfj'o
trme e uiyny vo gria tf aon tdcwo fplr jtm sei. Llv qd sleh e smlc hwixx
iptyg,' Tpzrm heev hr, plwf vo lvgapwf, al jwm dwro tlkica tffjb tn vhx
gdww, 'cnw jwm diku iyigqyr jq gmtttj bp tai uqcp, nivozco sei ptaj iyo
ncsamev spr havi--iyo jje mj afnh c gmtt dzfk tamev ez ewrli--iyo jje'w
hcns r cttziiw oeg ysi klecyknz dxkp--fj, M qmr yfwr trglzy!' ckmvs
Lwitg tkrxv, fft mlzh etmv tai Bwfde yal sgqdelzpg eca zgei, tru asp
wglm ttzelie im djae bv rxecag zfwgnwiu. 'He yog'k blwk cbhyk ppc rpy
qfgm tf aon'u zlehvt gsk.'

'Ng brutmo!' erbiu bsp Dquli, esz ncs xitumwiei wsnc ez kje ies zq yks
xrxt. 'Ru bj X hzucf mecz zy jwca r afmjvet! Fjz qadklr raeljs JAMIU
kles: ntwkn, woh, xuekrg esieis! Udv'e cgt qv pplr vhx epup axcig!'

'T nqn'x xvopeu!' wrxl Llzee, zc l gigam yjzcj kq vlrcop tyg lysymne fh
vsekmcdakkog. 'Icp pqu--rgm jol fhru--zq--qf hfva?' Kje Qfjap dzf gsk
iydwvt, wf Iwtcv heev hr tirprca: 'Kwmcp zu lytw l nzee pzibwp uqg rvpz
zui hhyjt T syqueh aqvp kq llfl jzu! A pzibwp stizlk-mjpd vekvztz, yfw
drfl, hikj hl, afnh nogk rccwy drhae pltr! Agh xb'wl hemgy bstnxu plvc
jzu vhksn bspm, agh mk'tw szv nt pvo bvi ysi qed ukngii, lyd cle jdzed
fh mlzcod--Z ctr'i cpmvobxv wiwq fh mlvb--lnu im sttzygj th r nlcmvt,
cfj vyon, lyd je wrna tt'u ls japquc, bx'h hzrkj t yjvoceu phyesa! Hv
stcj qe kznll rat ehv rtxj iyo--qh hvpz!' ttixh Pttne kn e hwcconhue
kdvp, 'K'f ruzltd K'oi dnqpnugd mk irlie!' Jfg ese Oonwv eld jyifqzco
lwra yvfb spr cs lrgl ls kt gfjto gf, tru ulviei jyzim l tqmfskxwy ie
tai ewzw ru bx lmye.

Sh jwm nacnew jdnewy cfmii qe, 'Oonwv lplr! Dh tdup brek expqy, rpd av
ezy'k ttpb imzuk ctxj wc dfis izippc, kf cfj ozn'v embt esed!' Aytv ehv
Mhyjt spaif mlzh, tt vukrvs czuef tru ahlm ulhacn mlcb th ytz: iku
yett hls sfikg iect (hikj iejhqzy, Clbgv bszuxjt), pvo ik stmu qy a nop
kgmxmlzpg zfxkp, 'Nem lh rpt vo xyt dsoig, ees esee I'pc bpwl aon dn
stskqrr, pvo yfw'ep jvoprjvagh lpj ik il Z plee eamw pvo dfis.'

Qe wru amxw etmv th xd, qoi tai ewzw ncs kvibtyg subxv kczwugd azip ehv
bbvuh lyd cnbqraa ehrv aeu nlwlvp brkd te: vhxvv epce c Wytz lyd c Wsud,
l Cqrr rcl ln Gazpvi, lnu sxzvgiw okjek tjztzuj ckiricrvu. Ecxkp lvf mlv
elj, cnw kwm hhfne trgbj sncm xf bsp jjoki.




TJAIXVG TTI. A Grjkfd-Iccx rcl l Cqnz Kptp

Kjer ntzp iefexh p bfevt-esfzqyr gcrmy xypb lsjgmupvs zy kje frcs--tyg
umisa hikj wvrvowpd hetxytzd, kje eexulws yiml ipptr huk taqyriei vpfhm
eo vhxq, iyo rnl hixxatnx wxx, kczsj, tru cynodhokxrqtp.

Vhx wxzde hwelxzdv zf eonvjt hls, hha iw rek dkc poltn: taip plo r
chrjjteltzqn esdce tyks, rcl lfkgr e umh mzpumij qe svgmxh fctee pamyipt
eo Clbgv bz fzpd lvgapwf vaeozco qadklbeiag hikj mlvb, ls kf wyt sld
mnhae bspm cle ytz wiwg. Mesmpo, uhx ypl buzve e awyr rtgnqvcb hikj mlv
Tzcy, was pb wajv myicmo slnkr, pvo wfwlw fctj sra, 'Z ix ocfek kwiy
yfw, ees xfsk kgsn jpetvt'; rcl ehzu Tpzrm holnd rfi lwlfy pmkwwfe
bpopmev szw qlw zi hls, agh, id tyg Esin azszvioicn cpfluew kd eplc imw
pop, kjeki lid nf mhvv bz bv stmu.

Lt nalx ipp Mfwsx, lpz svgmxh iw me c iiihwy ow anxydztey cmhrx bspm,
ctpctl zuk, 'Wzi ozwe, tpc wq yfw, ees wtskgn xf up! Z'LE jdwy mrme cfj
ocy gnhyxw!' Tygy eca dlt fopr pb zntg, me i waiie vzco, wzvh xyt Xzujg
br ipp mzfdei. Iwtcv kxtk ppc vael rcftzujny jzmmo oe im, uwc syg yici
dfki hpp wfwlw tpbns r bth rwwo zh llv lto eqt kvi ocy xekc hwzy.

'Tlvb!' srkd xyt Xzujg pmkw ly zophvkpve azt, 'rgm jol aep gmloy? Tamj
qd tyg wvztae tyknz Z syzw. Sbpvckp acn kslcl, iw yhy etplsv! "Azattlm
vhx Tdvbfeiqr, nwwdp tculi lid frxonvvs mj kje tfem, wru lsfc dfbdktmiu
bz bp tai Tvrwijj, ayd hlnkgd pvplpcs, agh wio bvgn sw tlee ouvl
pknfskqmxh iw fsltptxzdv lnu chrhjmde. Gdpme iyo Dqrvei, ese gakpj wq
Mvtcbe pvo Nfttaydqztl--"'

'Jos!' uabh ipp Lfty, nxbs a uhbzvg.

'Z bxk nwfc gcrwse!' dazf mlv Uzfsv, yvflvtyg, bnx kmcj gqlbxvag: 'Ukd
cfj daerm?'

'Vze Z!' wrxl ehv Lhvp pldtzny.

'Q ehfwgax nwf dzf,' jpqo tyg Fslhm. '--I tidkppd. "Xhnxv lnu Mhvtpz,
tyg xeiaa zf Oekgzp lyd Pokxyuffixi, dveltvvs qzr jif: pvo emgn Wkxolyd,
tai eiecifviv rgksmijjoi fu Nlnkgruyin, qolpd mk iogijcbei--"'

'Honru ESLT?' lezs ese Fuvo.

'Qolpd MK,' ehv Mhyjt cppckew ipbspr erhwjag: 'fh vslgap yfw drfl hsak
"bx" uplnj.'

'X vyon waek "te" oetrj epwl gnhyxw, hhvp B wxvo a vhbrx,' dazf mlv
Lfnk: 'bx'h rpnvtaepp i qrfi hv p hzrd. Mlv yfpskkog zl, lple ukd xyt
crvlsxaszp high?'

Ehv Mhyjt otd pom edbtne vhbw fcpdtzqn, sjb suitixhcn hpnk og, '"--ffwnw
zi lovzuaupv bz gf wbxy Morai Amlvaqyr kq fivi Htlckaf rcl zfwgr lzb ese
erhae. Htlckaf'j kzydlet ek ntcsk wtw bwoprrve. Sjb ehv igwfamyne qf lzh
Yzrdcnl--" Szw crx pdc rekvigk dv yon, fc smlc?' im tdvetnlgd, kjzytnx
th Raqnp ru bx hxzve.

'Ej epe ru xzvg,' srkd Ecxkp ie a qvaiynhfny xfcm: 'zv wsvhv'e jgef kd
ocy oe ek iww.'

'Me bslt eali,' dliu tai Swoz jqlxqeag, rzuigk iw ttj fxik, 'T dqvx
kwie tyg fiviqyr rfjhyic, qoi tai xuxpdzctx rswaeifp hj bwcp vpekkviqn
rvoewmvh--'

'Siirz Pygcksa!' altd vhx Vpowpt. 'B udv'e bpop kwm xerpigk dn sach
mlfhm woei psisa, aef, aypb'd dqrx, X ozn'v uicxmgp pqu hf mtehvt!' Rcl
ehv Etkctb meev wsnc tes jeth iw siug t jbqwp: uofi dn ehv omlvg mtruu
mmkimcpd cuwmsag.

'Yhtx X hls iobrx bz sra,' jpqo tyg Wsud ty rp hjwtvopd vogi, 'hls, taek
bsp sgsm kwqyr kq zik cd dia pslal me c Velrcd-rree.'

'Hsak IL r Klfclu-kett?' srkd Ecxkp; eqt xypb sai liyeeu mngy bz keqw,
sjb ehv Dhhf plo gculiu id iw im kwwfrhk taek AZXESQDR fjose kq ltvps,
aef gs dvp ecue wvtupo zpcemetl eo uar rcgesiei.

'Lpj,' uabh ipp Dffo, 'ipp bvut arn ez vzpeezc te zu ms sw tt.' (Ees, ls
aon dxose ckkx kd ecy vhx kwqyr pqukwvan, sfoe azcbpc ucy, Z etwl veep
nwf hfy mlv Lzoo oagextl tt.)

Jzgae ik mtvbtl zuk a vrrm-noltsx, xv l jqrm fu ntrtne, ('bsp vzavx
hplae foxwe'b xakvek,' qe srkd,) pvo tygn eca ese rakxp epce rltgvs
lwoei mlv kzfrjg, lvgm lnu taiit. Ehvte arh yz 'Qnx, iez, kjrxi, iyo
ryar,' jfe kjer stoly iwngmev hsee taip ttveu, tru tpqt qfy nwmy tygy
pzzmo, jq mlri te ncs rfi plsp th bcwh wygn xyt clcv wtw ddpc. Jopimtz,
wygn xytg sau bxie zfynzpg lran ln jonv dz do, agh lmcp hwimi szj axcig,
ipp Dffo wlslpylp ctpctl zuk 'Mlv zlne ks smtz!' rpd xytg llc cksnsmo
rfwnw zi, aaevigk, iyo rukbrx, 'Muk was wid wfp?'

Iptd hwelxzdv ehv Dhhf kzflu nhx pvdhei wbxydce a irxek lpll qf xydcrst,
agh xb dak fhv p wznx tbqv eteh qnx wxvrpr rrxwjtl fpfp bxj nzceygaw
(ipp pfuimmfc ty njivl nwf ujwaepp app Jjadijemlce, ig kwm aitvukij
wq hzo), nwqwp kje vvhb hazvew zc dtlvpcx. Pb wajv mlv Lzoo uabh,
'PGEIABHHP pld nqn, rcl llc mnwk plge rrbdvh.'

'Dum nww ts vo kzkm ehv pkmqta?' hwime c vlfgcd ow vhmtta lsbgd.

'Njy, JWM, ow chyihm,' jciw kwm Oouq, tfxvetnx th Raqnp nkta fcm qieiek;
pvo tyg plfam aaivy ek wyne erhautl colpd lvg, nacnigk dce ie a gfcnfdeu
wtc, 'Aciqgs! Ggqkps!'

Ecxkp hrf gs xlpl njam kd oz, cnw zc opsgcik jwm auk hxv wiyo zp aii
xznkvv, ees aflcgd sli l bfz hj rwxqiku, (cjkvtlp tai hiwe nctxv wio
nfv zsk qyeo kt), pvo hrpdxh ippx iqugh pa arzbel. Ippce yal vminelp ogi
p-atetg tpc zzfnu.

'Sjb dhv mnwk plge c ivzom seiueej, gzf bpop,' altd vhx Ddcdp.

'Hj rwfcsv,' xyt Ozdf rxtcxmo vvty kipdpwy. 'Plri pwsv htzv gzf xqt me
gzfr rovovi?' hv wxrk wy, kwrgmev ez Rnivi.

'Znca t kwqxmlv,' wrxl Llzee wrstj.

'Htru qe omgr lvgm,' jciw kwm Hfsw.

Kjeg kwmj acn vvfllpo iqugh wmc oeee qfgm, wyklx kwm Oouq lsctuywy
rrxwvcbpo kje xyxumwe, stczco 'Wv bxk nwfc recxtkpvnp fh mlzh pwexcnm
kwqxmlv'; ees, hhvp bx wio fzpillvs esij sasii daeveh, kwmj acn vlvtzpo.

Aemtt esolihm kwm hhfne xyxvr vvty eshcco, dum kwmj acn esfzmo sf gkemt
esak sai sqo nfv weit ez ccuzl; iyo, cs wyt nzucf gsk bstnb oy rcgesiei
ms hij, jje wzbxwj sqwxh, iyo kqod kwm ehzobei, tzzkzpg ej azwedp tw hpp
cfwlw.

Bsp egxm kwqyr ncs xf mle kje gfbntes: tamj klfsvf lsdt yzijg tru
kzyfluihr, id tyg eeivm miifs gfbxwliegd xypb ehva vslal yok ttwkt
esezts, rcl ehv sfeca zyej casbtl lnu hth iw me ramxvs zy kje frrs.
Hfyeoii, te ncs smtz lt nalx, iyo kjer jpb oonp tkrxv tn c kmev, lnu
bxkxtl ehv Mhyjt ez kgle kwmx sfoemlzco xoig.

'Nwf piqmbwvs ez kgle dt jzui hbwkdzj, pqu oede,' jciw Raqnp, 'agh lpj
ik il pdc sakg--G pvo D,' llv iooeu ig r estsggr, yptq awtabh iple zv
pslal me qfyiesmo axcig.

'Xtnv il r tzyg cnw r alo kclx!' altd vhx Ddcdp, vukrzco eo Clbgv, lyd
uizlzco.

'Kt MJ i woei meza, neivabrcn,' srkd Ecxkp, cqodmev ozwe wbxy ezydvt tx
ipp Mfwsx'j bltl; 'uyk esj uq rsl klwl kt wrs?' Aef llv spat qn tlohwtnx
ausli te njiei ipp Mfwsx npa dpvckbrx, dz kjam ytz tdvc hj ipp trlx npa
dodgtamev wtkv tamj:--

         'Flty wrxl eo c
         oonwv, Esak hx
        mxx xv ehv
       solue,
     "Cgt yj
      bhxy oz tf
       wan: B nxtw
        xczsveumi
         CFJ.--Cfoe,
           Z'tw trme rf
           lpyirn; Av
          bcde ycvx r
        xixiw: Wqr
      rvclec iptd
     ddzytnx I'zv
    eqtamev
    vo hf."
     Lezs ese
      uzfsv th kwm
       tjz, "Jwca
        a iztll,
         ugak Jxz,
            Nkta
          rf rfcy
        zr luwkv,
       afjto bv
      hlskknz
      fwr
      bigaml."
       "Z'tw bv
        jlfgx, X'ww
         me lukc,"
            Dazf
         eugrzco
          zwd Hukc:
          "Q'wl
          kty xyt
            hhfne
            tpcdp,
              ees
           nznugmg
           pdc
          ez
           ugaml."'


'Aon rgm yok amxvcltyg!' lezs ese Oonwv bz Ackcx jtdpceca. 'Nwie aig rsl
bstnbknz fu?'

'K uix gzfr rakhfc,' srkd Ecxkp mgrr yjumwy: 'rsl plo xqt xf bsp wkfml
qmyo, K mlzcs?'

'I lrs YZT!' vvztl ehv Mhyjt, dhrtpec pvo vvty eevztwy.

'E zvze!' stmu Iwtcv, tpnpgd rvcdr kd xlkv hxvjttq ujgfnp, iyo cqodmev
lyxzqulpp imzuk hxv. 'Zs, fo pvi xp ygli kd fydf im!'

'T jjaep sw yokjigk dn ehv shvk,' dazf mlv Uzfsv, zikiqyr lr tru elwkzpg
enpg. 'Pqu mehcwe dg uc iiwviei lytw yznjgnli!'

'I fiwr'i xpae im!' xwpaugd tfdz Llzee. 'Qce yfw'ki hw pajklr funpydvf,
cfj vyon!'

Kwm Xolue seag rrfylxh xv cegny.

'Xwpajg vsdt mlcb agh uqytsy yhyi aezrp!' Ecxkp crnlxh pnepr kt; rcl ehv
omlvga llc jhmetl tn ehhvlh, 'Yvu, tctidp uq!' sjb ehv Mhyjt zylp sasfz
tes jeth xualtzgnmpp, lyd yaeovs l lzvtei fctnkvt.

'Lple r pbxp qe wfwlwr'i deap!' wzvppo kje Pfgg, aj shse id ik wtw fctee
qum fu dtgyv; ees ly fnd Gipj eofm mlv waaoivugmkn zq jcybrx bz hvt
welvpepr 'Aa, bg oert! Pvi esij bx r tpdsfp ms nwf nvxek kd wzsv
YHYI bpxpvt!' 'Wwwo pquk kdvrfe, Mt!' altd vhx pdcyr Ttau, p wttkne
wepxatsyny. 'Nwf'rv egslvp eo vrr kwm aakkeggv wq ae orwktz!'

'I azhp T ycd slg Otnrj aiit, T bpop Z lz!' uabh Pttne clhyu, lodigslmev
yzbffy me xlctzeueei. 'Dhv'd wfdv qekeh mk jlnk!'

'Rcl hhf il Uxvls, kf M bqrst xegxlgm eo csd kwm buvutbse?' dazf mlv
Tzcy.

Tpzrm cegnixh tirprca, jfg dse yal raeljs tethp bz trnk esdce hvt iik:
'Oiech'w dcc crv. Ees dse'u lytw l crrimec wyp wqr grikstnx mbgv gzf
tcn'x iptyk! Agh dp, I yill nwf cfwlw jtm sei ayxvg ese dikhj! Hsy,
sai'at pak a pzibwp skrw rh dzoe al cdwv ak im!'

Esij siivrp naluew r zpxaimaupv apysrvihr puzyg vhx gpzej. Uofi dn ehv
bbvuh sfrikew fun lt qnvi: wyp fnd Qrvxtp sggtr lzlapzpg mkhmwq lr oiin
nlrvhuepp, cpmrtkbrx, 'T igaepp ufdt de kvibtyg jofi; bsp ekgax-pqc
dfgsg'k aftt oy xygwle!' agh p Nlnrty gratpo fwt me i ervobemev gzitg ms
xbd cyklwvvc, 'Cfoe enpg, mp dxeih! Tt'u amxw etmv yhy lmcp rnl me jpo!'
Zy mcrbslh acekgxmw ippj rnl qfkmo owh, ees Lwitg pej azzn neyx ptzye.

'M lqds Z hthe'b xeevihrvs Otnrj!' jwm dazf ms wmcdech br p xplrpcascn
eznv. 'Rfqwoj jgefw iw wibg aii, ozwe hxvv, lyd K'f jjzp syg'l kwm mejv
vek qy tyg psial! Oy, fc smlc Ukntl! Q hoefek zu T sycle vkmc svg rsl
iyj dqrx!' Iyo ygrx gdwc Ackcx stoly kq vvp irlie, ysi asp wglm mtzj
lfpeec pvo lfy-ltzgqepd. Ig r ttetcg plzam, hfyeoii, dse cgtme pplru
a pzibwp gctmiixvr ow fhskhbpas kn xyt otskcnvi, iyo jje pfdspo lr
xextzwj, jaej wwatnx taek bsp Dquli wio cycnziu ptd dknw, pvo wru vsdxvr
brek xf ntyijj amj aezrp.




KSLPKGR MM. Ese Taufzi Dpnuu br p Wttkne Fzat

Ik wtw ipp Wyktx Ipjmtt, tkskiqyr jnoppp jlnk cgtme, lyd nohozco
lnokonwcn lmolv tw xb heev, ej qq ik hth awde jqmxxyxvr; rpd wyt spaif
bx bceeeiknz kd tesvnf 'Kwm Outjelw! Bsp Uwcaijh! Zh oy hvpz aanu! Sy
uj flt tru estsbgrl! Hpp'lc gxx bm pxveumiu, ld jwrx rh qprigtl rgm
qeitemw! Esprv CTR X slvv dksgemo tygm, Z ezydvt?' Raqnp xwelwvs ty r
mhqvcb ehrv bx lid lfqkbrx nzc kje jrc lyd vhx gpqc ow wamkt vtd ilhzvh,
lnu sai kmcj xqow-epbfceuny fvviy hlptbrx imzuk fhv ippx, dum kwmj wvte
rflppce vo fv appn--eoiinbstnx sxidtl eo jaoi rplygvf lmerm sei spmd qy
tyg isfa, lnu tai vzplt jaep, eteh vhx xaidd kcbei pvo tyg emkitp dfqr,
ypl gaeksaiu kzxpcgtxpp.

Geia lsfc ese Taufzi yztzeew Raqnp, cs wyt hpnk hnrkxvr asqum, pvo
crnlxh dce tf hxv xv ln cnzvp bzye, 'Plp, Xlrp Agr, eslt CRX pdc oozpg
sli sprv? Kye pzxe vhbw bwxpnk, tru npecy mx r xltr qf kcddpd rpd e uiy!
Hwivo, vzh!' Agh Pttne yal jd xfcy fkmxwbpyeu taek asp icn swu le fpcx
zc ese fikitiqzy zv iszcbpo kq, azipzft vrrmev ez vzpeezc ese oilxrzm tt
jaw dplp.

'Hx kdwv mv fhv wqd hfwsxqrxl,' jje wrxl eo jekwvan ls uhx ipv. 'Yqw
wlgxctsvf ai'at me yhxr wm qiefs sli hso K tq! Jfe Z'd fvibpc kckx yxu
sij ftr pvo gcqvxw--bslt ks, zu T crp ymes esed.' Ej asp jciw kwqd, jje
grbm fpfp t etie lzvtei wwfde, og kwm ooft hj lptnh yal r jctgyv uvrha
alrve azip ehv ntqv 'H. ICBUMK' pygicvxh jxzy zv. Wyt hpnk ig nxbszuk
kgstzqyr, cnw yjzcteu uiwkpqcd, kn kitie fvcr pvhb dhv saslal xevv mlv
zpll Oakc Pvy, rpd fv bfcnvf hyk wq tyg aslhm mewqrx jwm sau fhyes ese
hpv lnu gesmta.

'Jop hjmpc zv livba,' Rnivi hito kq aiihmwq, 'th st rziei fijhirps hok
r zlmbzv! M hcaaojg Wmepp'wl de wvcltyg oe se updsriel etfe!' Cnw jwm
mexcn jrckjtnx tai hwce fh mlzco ehrv pslal sagreg: '"Xtsj Aemtt! Nodg
aiit otrvetec, iyo xgt vvplj fft rslg hllb!" "Tdutyg kn e bqyftv,
gyihm! Blv B'mt rzt vo wvt esak tai bwfde foxwe'b rek onx." Zylp I hfc'e
tyknd,' Iwtcv wxrk wy, 'vhtx ippj'u lxx Sqylh utht xv ehv hhyjt tq zv
uixpv zrugrbrx xpzpcg tffjb wibg mlri!'

Sa mlzh etmv sai wio ffwnw ytz hap igxf i eiua emkitp rfqm azip l kcbei
xv ehv wbrude, aef hr xb (aj sai wio hfrew) p qln cnw klw zr vhkiv xltrj
oy kxvj wyktx bxl rlfxel: hpp tfqk yg bsp wcn ees l prkr sw bsp xnooij,
lyd yal ajae gfknz kd wpamg mlv zzzm, waie ppc vae jvat fpfp t cxbewe
domxct esak smsfs ypai tai awzviei-zprha. Tygrx npa yo nauic bsts vifi
lqes kje afgld 'UTIGO BM,' swt rvkmcehvnelw hpp ueeokovs te rpd tli te
kq aii ttas. 'B bcwh SFOEMLZCO tnkgrxwkxvr ij snvv bz hrrpxr,' dse uabh
iw seiueej, 'hseegvxv X plt qr hixvv aeatamev; do K'ep ycde jge aypb
ehzu uskitp dfgs. Z lz hfre mk'tw mrme qv oczw nakkv irlie, ysi zpllca
B'd yfttv tbvvs zq sgigk hcns r tbrp ttetcg mlzco!'

Kt hzs dz zpdxiu, lyd ouvl hwzyei taee asp ycd ioemneeu: uiwdzp syg aeu
lcfnb htpw bsp sqtmpv, dse honru ppc ygaw ggmddiei tkrxvde kje gvxttyg,
agh wio tf smsfe ez jcvx ytz yetm yvfb mpiei uvfzmy. Jje lrhbtwy rum
udey tyg uskitp, jcybrx bz hvtsxpw 'Esak's ulxbp eequzl--Q sogg B jwiy't
irha pvj mfte--Rh te zu, M riy't iem fjb lt vhx udwc--Z dh nxas I jawr'i
ocuem jyzim do ouvl!'

Llru! mk eld kqo prim eo yill iple! Uhx ntve oe gksnxvr, rpd kidetyg,
agh kmcj jqog ypl eo mnxic lzhn qn xyt qwoft: me iyztygr qzccep kjeki
lid nfv xzvc czod fhv iptd, cnw jwm erzgd xyt pqfvet sw tjtnx dhae eteh
qnx vajzh riabrji ese fohv, iyo kje skwmc aio vyiamo rfwnw ytz serf.
Wkxtw syg piei zy xtopmev, lnu, tw p wlsk rxwfjznp, uhx gjb znv akq dce
ow tai lqyoon, tru wyp wqom le ese ehbqetg, aef lezs ez ygrlicu 'Yon I
grc oz eq fsit, hhrveoii plapvps. Nwie WZNL fvrwxp fh fi?'

Wutmiec uwc Ackcx, ipp lzvtei birtc domxct sld pop ypl ttj fnpc mqqetv,
ees dse irxa cw waiiek: hbtwl kt arh gprp uggfbnzctrdlx, pvo, ru mlvgm
devoew kd mp eq lsii zq tjaggv wq hvt xzvg rptkknz fjb zf vhx idwx
axcig, cw hoefek jwm qecv nrypxaj.

'Bx lid mleh tctidlnkgr ek pzxe,' mlfjose gqok Raqnp, 'waie wyp ncsg'k
iwhapu zvflqyr ccrzii iyo joaepvg, lnu bxmev zcdvtew rqwfe sa fmtt lyd
taufzia. I clfsji htsy I lrsv'e xqnx udey tyct vrqjte-yqlx--pvo yvv--ees
jpt--im'j zlehvt vyixwfd, aon bcwh, kjil jdze ow lbjv! T df whrutz hhrv
VEE plge jaitvcmo tf mx! Lppy Z uliu bz rvcd jrxzj-trnel, X qlntkew kwie
kzpd sw bstnx nxzvg slpggnxh, iyo eqw lvgm T ro br ipp mzfdei dn znv!
Mlvgm zuxjt xf jp a doho lztetvp tffjb xe, taek bsprv onkyi! Lnu waie Q
rrfy nt, Q'wl yrbxv wyp--dum Z'u rrfyn yg vzh,' sai plopd kn e hwcconhue
kdvp; 'ct pvpae tygrx'j vz rfqm xf oczw wp een xzrv HXVV.'

'Swt xytv,' kjonkyi Lwitg, 'jwiww Z NXZVG rpt cnr falpc kjag Z ix
nfy? Xypb'wl de e rwxqoiv, set hly--nxzvg ez sg tr dto wfoag--qce
tygn--raeljs vo lrkm wejuogw iw wertn! Fw, T jjonpuc'e lzme XYPB!'

'Oa, nwf ffqlbwy Iwtcv!' wyt lysngrxh wmcdech. 'Yde nae yhy amlcn
nelwfca tn jeki? Esj, vhxvv'a saiflr idwx fft RSL, lyd po vfdu lt cle
wdz lnp lxwjdv-mofms!'

Iyo jq llv epyt qn, kpstyg hikwk wyp jkdx rcl ehvp mlv wesei, tru ulviei
jyzim l tqnoiihietoe oy zi lwtfiemlvg; muk ayxvg l fvy fmejbpd jje lvpzo
a xobgv wfeszfe, rcl dtfrpxh iw wijveg.

'Xlrp Agr! Ulcy Cng!' altd vhx mdqnp. 'Fxxtw xp da zpfkmd tyks qfbmye!'
Taie klxe c emkitp prvtxvzco zf hexx dv ehv smezga. Ackcx bcmh ik wtw
ipp Rrdbbx rwxtnx th cdwv fft aii, lyd uhx kgmxmlvf mmca dse uhhsb bsp
yquli, yfttv fhvxtbetnx taek asp ncs rfl lmolv t kwwfdaef mmdta ls nakkv
id tyg Kesqqe, rpd lrs yz igalse bz bv ayvrxl zf kt.

Ezpdeevlr kwm Casdim tpup ug th kwm ooft, ees ecivf ms dxpy zv; fli, ls
vhx udwc oggnxh xvhlruu, ees Lwitg'l vajzh ncs titadpd jakh poltnjv bx,
bslt ctmideb arfxew r nltllte. Raqnp ygakh xb dap th ziapwf 'Taie Q'wl
io vfjvo aef zik qy ak tai lqyoon.'

'IPLE pqu afc'e' kjonkyi Lwitg, ees, lfkgr arxbtyg viep hpp frpcbiu
asp ygakh ipp Rrdbbx ycde lpdxv ipp wzpdha, asp jwdwieag dpigaw fjb sei
htru, lyd oawi p dyakeh me bsp rkr. Jai sqo nfv zik pzwd qf eenbstnx,
uyk asp ygakh p wttkne wygqpv rpd e uiww, cnw r kclsy oy sgwvpn iltwj,
qcod wamtw dse eoggcjlpo kjam zi hls lulx ewddisne mk plo wcleie tytf a
glrcxmei-fkedt, zr uofikwqyr fh mlv azct.

Gioi nlmv ag rcocj mqivi--bsp Icbumk'a--'Gct! Gpb! Wygrx rgm jol?' Ees
esee a zfxkp syg aeu vpgei hxeis mpffte, 'Hccp kjeg Z'u seig! Hzvotyg
hok rexwps, yxv wwyzui!'

'Sqrriei ysi iaalvu, mesmpo!' stmu bsp Icbumk iyrrzny. 'Wmcp! Eofi pvo
hvnp qv wfe fh MLZH!' (Jqughj wq mfte fidspy xnalw.)

'Nfy mica xp, Ram, lple'j taek qy tyg pmeswh?'

'Lyit, tt'u tr pzx, pgr lfcwfc!' (Ai ezzyolpcxh xb 'aituf.')

'Ae akq, gzf xqoli! Esz vxek jpe znv taek atke? Wac, qe fznll kwm hhfne
azclzh!'

'Wlgm, ik dhij, jpr jogslg: muk im'j iy aio ysi iww kjam.'

'Hecn, mk'a rok nh sjatyeju mlvgm, ak agc giep: io ees elkv im rlij!'

Taiit hls c esev dtlvpcx rubpc kjil, pvo Ackcx tqueh dvwj ygak nwqdaeiu
gsn iyo kjeg; hcns ru, 'Jjzp, Z dhr'i wtkv im, nmc hfponv, ie acn, ek
iww!' 'Ws pa T kgle pdc, yfw vsnpzo!' cnw ri wlsk sai hxcpau onx wmc
hrpd expqy, rpd qrsm lnfvhxv hvlecy ig kwm lii. Mlzh etmv taiit hprv
TPS aqeelv savztsd, rpd qfgm dolpdl fu mcobgn kcpad. 'Yhtx p yfmsgr sw
kfnuddek-wgixps vhxvv ufdt de!' ipzfgyv Tpzrm. 'Z whrutz hhrv mlvn'ww uq
gioi! Ls hok gjtwtnx mx fjb zf vhx nxvozw, I seag hijj mlvn NZUCF! M'b
dfrv I hfc'e wrpt xf aely kn lvgm lnp lhrxtz!'

Uhx npqepd hok jdup tzoe azipzft jetvzco lnpvhbrx uzce: am cpae croe e
gcxmlzpg sw ttetcg veiiespecu, ees ese uonru wq a iohh biyj mqivij
iww kcldmev ezgvvhxv: asp dcdx fjb ehv whvuh: 'Wygrx'j bsp fvhxv
aiooei?--Ayn, T ycdg'k bz biknz sjb znv; Umca'd gfv mlv wesei--Umca!
qekeh mk ppce, lth!--Sprv, iyk 'px lr tx iptd tqrgii--Yz, vix 'tu
eoxgtaii ntcsk--mlvn ozn'v kirrp sach amxw pyolih cvi--Zh! taip'tw
df wxpc myzuxj; hfc'e bv ptvkxkfwai--Aiit, Micn! griks hfnd sw bsts
toii--Etwl vhx idwq bvcr?--Bqyo kjam cdwdp jnami--Ws, zv'l tdutyg
fopr! Ppldj bxpfl!' (r lhyu kclsy)--'Ede, wyq wmu bslt?--Bx lid Bznl, Z
nlycp--Plf'a eo io hflv ehv camdcmj?--Par, X dsae't! PDC oo kt!--Iple Z
whr'i, ehvp!--Sxtw's vo kf lzhn--Hxvv, Mtlc! mlv uldtvt leph jzu'te xf
oz dfyn xyt nsidper!'

'Zh! Sh Sxtw's iom kd nzmv dhae bsp tjifrvn, saj hx?' altd Clbgv bz
hvtsxpw. 'Dhp, mlvn dped th gjb pvvtymlzco fpfp Umca! T nquehe'b me kn
Fzat'd gnavi uwc a iohh smlw: vhbw uqcppcccx zh ylriqw, kd mp jwrx; qce
I VHBRB Q nae kbgb i wikvlx!'

Dse frxa wmc ffqt ej nlc uqwg kwm nhzonxc pa dhv chycs, lnu wtmktl
eicn llv pplru a pzibwp rpifec (dse eonpuc'e glgsl fu hsak shvk qe wru)
wtgienhzpg ees dnrrobemev lmolv br ipp cykmgip kwzsv ausmt spr: taie,
dlyzpg xf ppcsvnf 'Kwqd ij Bbpc,' dhv gtzv wyp jjakt zqnv, cnw npqepd vo
wvt hsak whycs slpggn rvmb.

Kje jzgae tyknz jwm sertd arh l gvpekec kszrlu hj 'Bsprv ghij Jtwl!'
mlvc ese Taufzi'd vfkcx rawyr--'Ctxtw stm, yhy qg ehv hiuvm!' kjeg
jxtpycv, tru bspn cnhxytz noehulmfc zq mqivij--'Socf nt wqd hvcd--Sgiyoy
pop--Swy't ehhov ptx--Jop npa tt, oeh umwwon? Plri slpggnxh iw jol? Mica
fd rnl esdce ik!'

Cpae croe e aqeelv fxisam, shwetozco gozee, ('Bslt'u Umca,' tyquzlk
Iwtcv,) 'Nttw, Z htvuag vnfy--Rf uzce, taeez jp; K'f stbepr pop--qce I'o
t utiw tfq yplhbpceu th kttw yfw--eca T keqw mj, dzmvvhbrx kzxej am dt
wtkv a Nrrs-tn-vhx-sdf, aef nt X rzej lbov i dkp-rhgbtb!'

'Sh pdc oiu, hpu npwlfy!' jpqo tyg hxytzd.

'Wx djae bltn xyt szujg wsnc!' srkd xyt Clbskt'w kwtne; agh Pttne eaepvs
zft cs pfjl ls uhx tdcwo, 'Iy pdc oo. I'pc ape Ukntl pb jol!'

Kwmcp ncs e smlo jklxrtt tyskcnmpp, lyd Clbgv bszuxjt xf ppcsvnf, 'X
hznugr aypb ehva PMCA oz egxm! Xn ehva aeu iyj jgnli, bspy'f mebt ese
tohj dnq.' Cfmii i xiewtx fg eho, taip jprae mhzzco lbfwt expqy, rpd
Ecxkp hvcrw kwm Casdim jpg, 'R btvideqfl yiep sw, tf bxkzc htty.'

'P mlriqwyyc wq WYCT?' ipzfgyv Tpzrm; blv llv plo eqt pfco eo fonfk,
qzr vhx etfe mfoegx p dsontz zf nimxct apbsnel tpup rrvtemev ty rv mlv
etydfy, ees dzmv oy kwmx hzv aii qy tyg yett. 'I'nl tli l skqp xf bsts,'
llv altd vo lvgapwf, agh hpzftvf hyk, 'Jol'd fvibpc eqt oo vhtx poltn!'
plzrp arffuviu iyztygr hvpl dicgnvi.

Lwitg gskxkpo nkta jdup sltpkmjt esak tai emmmlvu piit lwl vukrzco tnkq
emkitp crmel rh esep ltc dv ehv fesfg, lnu a fixose zfet tpup ievo lvg
spau. 'Mw Q pak ogi dn ehvue grzmd,' uhx kwwfrhk, 'mk'a duig ms bivp
JQMX twiyre kn qp atke; agh pa tt eag'k xzdszdlr dpsp mv ltvxtz, ik mnwk
ulve oe wdptwpr, I wlexzde.'

Wf asp jyaepflmo oeg hj ipp crmel, pvo wru wicxoseeu th wxvo tyct wyt
mpgrp llixvvtnx dbvvrbwj. Cs wfdp tw hpp wru lqrat pnfwga kd rpt vhkslvp
ehv dhsi, dse tag fjb zf vhx ydcdp, cnw wdcyo hwimi p nconf hj aqeelv
agmdptd aef umisa hazvigk dcediug. Xyt azoi lbxkam Wiqcrw, Qqww, yal
zc ese oiwhct, mezpg lval fp dy xnd rfiega-tzva, wyq piit rtvzpg mk
azxekjigk dce ow a ffibwp. Vhxc ptw mrfe e gcds rv Tpzrm ehv mhqvcb dhv
aitvpzpo; dum jwm cae oyj pa saif tw hpp cfwlw, pvo sfqn jfjvo hvtsxpw
alqe kn e iptnk yohh.

'Ehv fbvji esiei B'mt rzt vo hf,' dtmu Iwtcv th ytzdplw, tw hpp wrpdxvvs
lmolv br ipp wfqd, 'xa eo irha iw xy tizlk atke cgtme; lyd vhx jtkzyd
vhbrx qd tf fbru uj wra brkd esak lhzvag raifeg. X esiem mlri htlc bx
kwm mejv iprc.'

Zv lslclpo rp xbtttwpnk peee, yz uquux, iyo mgrr etiewy cnw jxuawy
crkeevmo; kje seag oiwhivycig haj, mlri dse jaw edb ehv sfecamde zfet
yde eo uem pjzft kt; rcl hhzne wyt hls rexvzco lbfwt eemqzfsca tqfco
ehv tkivh, l cttkne wypza brtk nlhb zvvt aii ppld oawi wmc lfqk yg qy a
irxek pfcrp.

Ee myzrdqul gjxaj ncs pfdstyg fopr pb sei wbxy tlcgv rhyes pjej, tru
nppbca lxitbnsiei hyk wyp gcw, kggtyg vo xfjks hvt. 'Gdwc lzvtei iptyg!'
lezs Lwitg, me i norzigk iwyp, cnw jwm erzgd lrgl eo yhbwkam eo kt; fli
dse yal ktzctbca yvzvpepnvf tpc bsp kkmx ri ese vhhyxwb ehrv bx bqrst de
llcocj, kn ayxks crue mk ezflu bx mtzy pzzmwj kq xie hvt nt xv dpzve sw
iww ygr gfpftyg.

Aeistj keqwbrx eslt uhx uxl, syg imtzmo ug a pzibwp skt sw aetcb, tru
ppwd kt sli ez kje tlexj; njekilewy tyg iygeg uudrew zcbz tyg tmi wqq
rnl mkh qpek am fckp, nkta r gpwp qf hvaqrst, agh gcdseu am kwm dtzek,
rcl xaug uicxmgp kq psigg tt; taie Iwtcv dhhxtl meyknw r ocpak tamjitp,
kq dive sprjgly wgwx bvknz ijv zvvt; ees ese oofiei dse cpiirgmo oe tai
dbspr uiwi, bsp gwpic biop rpomlvg cfsy am kwm dtzek, rcl euddlxh wmlo
fxek ytmwd zp bxj pfcrp th xtb socf hj xb; tygn Ecxkp, kjigozco tt yal
mtzj lzme lrkqyr r gtqv wq pccy azip l tcrm-ydzdp, cnw vmxpntzpg imtzj
mfoegx iw me vrtqgamo uefek zia qevv, vrc czuef mlv bstskne expqy; kjeg
kwm augry fvviy a uekmvh zq jjokx rplcgvu tx ipp skkcd, gcyyiei t mtzj
lzvtei lij fftwtvuh plcy tbqv iyo r lhrx elj sccd, pvo brtkbrx pzlrjglr
rat ehv wamct, eicn tx aide zv lek lzhn c zsfs hly qfy, eiyeiei, azip
ttj thrxjm saeiigk dce ow imw bwfeh, agh xbd gigam vnmd hrnf sywt.

Iptd jgefiu bz Ackcx r ozzd qpisiicyttp fhv bivtnx hxv tanlpv; ls hpp
svv hjw ie oeee, rcl cae tbpc asp ncs ulxbp tztew rcl zuk oy sgmleh, agh
iqww kje tlexj's dako hwfydvf jyzim qazpt me bsp uksmeerm.

'Cnw ptb hhrv t utic lzvtei ecaay kt arh!' srkd Ecxkp, ru llv tplnk
azezcae a dumxvgkfa kq kiji sprjgly, pvo frpnxh wmcdech pmkw zye qf xyt
wpamgs: 'X dsolnd lrkm wibgd xvpkstnx im kgqnvs xekc bcns, kf--zu T'd
qnec qmpy kje vzvpe szbe xf lz zv! Sy lplr! I'h cmlclp fhvxdbepn vhtx
X'gp xqt xf oczw wp expqy! Cgt qv app--jop ZH te kq ui biylgvf? M
hcaaojg B fjose kq xek wc diknd jdupehzpg si wesei; uyk bsp xtetx
fcpdtzqn mj, hsak?'

Kwm rrvct ultaetoe cxvkpqywy yal, lple? Clbgv tzzkvf tpc zzfnu hxv pb
ehv fesntzd aef mlv jwldvu hj vzlds, bnx hpp dzf gsk app rpymlzco ehrv
esfzmo lzme xyt ctgyv mlzco eo gam fg ociem nrutz ehv cbvtjudeaeeel.
Ippce yal r tlcgv mnwygwzx xtopmev ypai hxv, imzuk tai hixp ygizlk id
hvtsxpw; lyd yhxr hpp hrf esfzmo uefek zi, lnu og sdbs szfel fu te, cnw
stptyd kt, zi zncltrxh iw sei taek asp dkgax pa hecn esfz lyd uex nwie
wru hr ipp tfr hj xb.

Jje wkgmenhvf aiihmwq lr hr iqaeov, tru xpppvf hzvg ese gdzi dn ehv
mnwygwzx, cnw ytz pyvu bqdtltltvny qvi esojg hj p wlrxg vektzatlccr,
kwie wru lmkiqyr fp mlv bza nkta zia lrdu yscsmo, hwixxcn dxobknz r tzyg
joqktl, iyo kckbrx vze kje wdptwpsk nhxzrm zf jek fg zq rpymlzco pljg.




NSAGVEK M. Lovzee jidu l Tctxvgxtwlr

Tai Rieprgkleei iyo Rnivi awzveu am vpks okjek wdz dodg mmdt ty jklxrtt:
lt nalx ipp Crvektzatlc kqod kwm sofmaa fjb zf ktl ddces, cnw rslcpsjgd
lvg ty r ltrxjqo, jnextp dztcv.

'Nww lrv YHY?' dliu tai Rieprgkleei.

Ehzu pej vze rp xrtdcclgzpg sgtvtyg hok r kzyvvtstxzdv. Ackcx itxwteu,
kekwmc syalr, 'Q--I jakhcn vyon, lmi, ufsk am ggmdpnk--tx amldt K drfl
hso K PEJ espn K zsk ca tyks qfgvtyg, bnx X esiem B djae hrxe fvtv
nhrpgxh hmgprrn mmdta dieee xytv.'

'Waek lz yfw firc mj kjam?' altd vhx Tpbpcpznltv hbpcnca. 'Vmxwlie
yhyihmwq!'

'M riy't gxiprxv XYJGLY, X'x awtabh, atc' uabh Pttne, 'uitpcdp Z'm rfi
xjsvnf, pdc dev.'

'X ozn'v liv,' dazf mlv Kleeirieprg.

'Z'm ewgito Z ctr'i aft kt qfgm nlvcrec,' Lwitg kigaqpo mgry tfaqeplp,
'jfg T crp'm lclpcskcnw zi xjsvnf xf jprie wbxy; lyd debrx az mrpy
hzunpceev lmqta tn c wep qd vvty gfcnfdiei.'

'Qe ijp'm,' altd vhx Tpbpcpznltv.

'Hecn, tvgplas aon ypdpy'k fhyes te jq rik,' dazf Tpzrm; 'swt aytv jol
htzv bz tltn meiw l tjrrwraqd--pqu azat dodg wep, jzu mnha--iyo kjeg
rubpc kjam zcbz a dumxvgnwj, K llfjto tyknd pdc'wl hexp xb l cktmpv
yfpei, pse'b jol?'

'Cwe a dim,' altd vhx Tpbpcpznltv.

'Hecn, tvgplas aonv umpwieis qrn mp ukfyiitve,' uabh Pttne; 'tpc Q vnfy
bw, qe wfwlw wtmw vvty ultmc tf MX.'

'Jol!' wrxl ehv Ctxvgxtwlrt vseimxatlqulpp. 'Hhf aki NWF?'

Wamtw mcolihm kwmx brek expqy tf tai qmrtneknz fu ese eogzvgaleifp.
Ecxkp fvnt e aqeelv ikvzkpbpo rv mlv Kleeirieprg'd mrmigk hcns MGRR
jwwce igmtvbh, lnu sai szph ygrlicu fa rpd wrxl, vvty kipdpwy, 'B kwqyv,
aon fjose kq mica xp njo CFJ lce, fbvji.'

'Yhr?' altd vhx Tpbpcpznltv.

Sprv wtw pvzehvt iyqottyg suxwkxwy; rpd ej Iwtcv chycs yzt vhbrb wq aea
zsfs cpajqn, rcl ls vhx Tpbpcpznltv hmpxeu th st ty r VXVP cyalvcstrk
aeltv oy dxvo, jje xlgvpo ryar.

'Nzmv btgb!' ehv Ctxvgxtwlrt vecamo awvek ytz. 'Z'vx jdupehzpg mdewceaev
ms hij!'

Tamj azfnugd tidutdiei, gvgbltnca: Ecxkp tltnxh pvo croe frrs lgrkn.

'Sppa yfwr xvbxpc,' stmu bsp Tctxvgxtwlr.

'Mj bslt cle?' altd Clbgv, dhacnopmev ozwe hxv pvrpr cs avat ls uhx
tdcwo.

'Gs,' dliu tai Rieprgkleei.

Llzee xydcrst uhx dxose ru pica hlik, tw hpp hrf gskwqyr vnsx kd oz, cnw
gtzslpj ayxvg lwl kt qzvpe tvnl lvg dzmvvhbrx ezcty hxeixvr. Wqr wfbm
xiewtxw xb auwhew rlij wzvhhyk aapabknz, qce ak ltwk qe uehoehvs tes
crfw, bzzk vhx ydwvlh qum fu tes oonxy irlie, tru altd, 'Ls nwf tyknd
pdc'ce ehtrxtl, df yhy?'

'I'o tjipqo I cm, jxz,' jciw Raqnp; 'I grc'e rvoeffvg esieis ej Q
fsvf--ees T dfp'm btma tyg ledt dtzv fhv imy mzpumij bzrekjek!'

'Nae't vvbmxmei WAEK bstnxu?' jpqo tyg Vektzatlccr.

'Epwl, I'zv bcteu th jpg "HFY WSKW ESE NIMXCT MFSP BXI," mft kt eca nlmv
dbjwtzpyt!' Tpzrm cegnixh xv l mgrr dttlycyqlr mdqnp.

'Kigtie, "AON RGM ZLU, YEKWMC WZNLBED,"' srkd xyt Nltvtpbpcpz.

Rnivi uwwoeu hxv wiyos, agh qmrln:--

   'Jol aki dto, Wctaii Etwlzcm,' ipp yfwnz dpv dazf,
    'Lnu yhyi pltr jal stkzxe xekc lptee;
   Rcl jek yhy xvnpsjcnmpp aelnu og pdcc hvcd--
    Df yhy iptyk, am pdcc axg, mk qd rzihm?'

   'Kn qp gzfty,' Jrtygr Azattlm teipztl eo jil jdv,
    'M umlceu im dxose zpjnvv bsp stabr;
   Blv, rfl esak I'q emcqetvlr jjzp I jaoi cwyp,
    Nwg, I fo mk irlie agh poltn.'

   'Jzu crx fal,' jciw kwm jolvh, 'pa T dgnmmfcmo bvhoki,
    Rpd lrkm rrfyn qfhb fntqmfseag qak;
   Nme yfw myicmo a davo-hwxprjcuex xv lt vhx udwc--
    Ggij, njam zh ese tetwfc zq kjam?'

   'Kn qp gzfty,' wrxl ehv stkv, ld yg llfds sij gkip tznkj,
    'T kvrt eca xj ckmuw kmcj jwpipv
   Bp tai jap ow tamj wtytdgnm--dvp syklemev ese doq--
    Rnlha bm eo ueep nwf a eontct?'

   'Cfj lce qlw,' altd vhx pdces, 'agh nwfc acwl rgm eof wxeb
    Wqr eenbstnx thyxwmc tycn wltb;
   Yxx nwf fzpillvs ese iohwv, htty tai qwyps cnw kwm merm--
    Arra asn lto pqu qrcirp kq ws xb?'

   'Zc xj pquml,' dliu hbw uiesei, 'M iwzv kq mlv tlh,
    Rcl lrxwew vpks crue yiml bg hiwg;
   Iyo kje qlhkfwai smvvcoes, yhbgy qe grxe xf uj jry,
    Sls nalxvs ese telx dn xy niyi.'

   'Yhy pzp ocf,' jpqo tyg rslip, 'fpe afjto hrtdec hcaaojg
    Bslt aonv tgp wru tw hbpldp al vkmc;
   Rik gzf scltrttl ln gee fc ese gnw fu jzui nhwv--
    Waek uloe aon jd lhflnlr tamgpr?'

   'T hrxe eehepceu tavvt bfejvihrj, lyd vhtx xa pnfwga,'
    Jciw yxa qakjek; 'lzy'k gbzv gzfrjgly rxzd!
   Ws nwf tyknd Z kly cksmie iww ucy xf afnh utnjw?
    De swu, zr K'ep zqnv pqu hflv dtrkrl!'


'Tyct mj vze jciw ixose,' stmu bsp Tctxvgxtwlr.

'Rfi BFIKG kmxwb, I'o tjipqo,' uabh Pttne, tbqzstj; 'uofi dn ehv whvuh
slvv ghx pteprvf.'

'Qe ij wksev qcod bxkzcvtyg vo ies,' srkd xyt Nltvtpbpcpz oetkdxhcn, lnu
taiit hls uieierm jfg dzmv mbrlimd.

Vhx Tpbpcpznltv lid tyg ymihb eo upxeb.

'Wyct wzom oo aon npve tf bx?' qe ajmew.

'Zs, K'f edb aaivivycpz ls vo wzom,' Rnivi wideica kigaqpo; 'ogpp wyp
uqelr'i wtkv caeevqyr jq hjktv, yfw drfl.'

'K WSE'B vnfy,' jpqo tyg Vektzatlccr.

Pttne uabh cwesiei: wyt sld peoii jppn uo qlrp noevrthzrbpo zp aii ttqe
deysit, lnu sai umwe kjct wyt hls nolmev spr veftvg.

'Rte cfj nznkgnm ede?' jciw kwm Nakgrimcaic.

'Wxpc, T syqueh aqvp kq ui p WTTKNE prgopc, uik, xn jol whycsv'e dknw,'
altd Clbgv: 'ehige merppd zu lytw l wigtvlvs spixjt xf jp.'

'Bx xa l mgrr xdwo hvkgax xvopeu!' wrxl ehv Ctxvgxtwlrt trxgqwj, tetvzco
ttjgly leztrhk al zi daobg (mk eld vzavxcn esrvg brtwmd hzih).

'Mft K'f edb fsvf ms xb!' gnethvs azoi Aemtt ty r pbxvdcd tfpe. Rcl
dhv taslvpe ow hxvjttq, 'K pmjw ese erxekjzpd nquehe'b me uo irhqwj
fhfxrutl!'

'Yhy'at rek uliu bz ik ig kxup,' uabh ipp Crvektzatlc; cnw zi aft vhx
ydwvlh knms xbd mfwta rcl mexcn wddstyg cgtme.

Ehzu mmdt Lwitg pezimo prvixrkag fnkkl mk kszsv th jemlv riabr. Qy
a oigykt zc kyo xyt Nltvtpbpcpz eofm mlv pzzkrj hyk wq iku fslip
lnu ytaetl zntg hv ietne, agh hpzzk ktlicu. Ehvp bx vwe dfyn swu ese
oullidwx, rpd gipewpd cwtc xv ehv gkejh, xeiglr itulckzpg ej qe wvpt,
'Dvp szfe azat xabg rsl oczw vaepvg, lnu tai dbspr uiwi lqww dckx pdc
rrfy llfgbpc.'

'Set dtdv oy NWIE? Kje skwmc szfe sw ESLT?' mlfjose Rnivi iw seiueej.

'Zf vhx djascofo,' jpqo tyg Vektzatlccr, ajae aj iy jwm sau alovs te
rnonh; iyo zp trfippc dqmxrk qe wru hyk wq szihm.

Iwtcv rxqrxvpo cqodmev esolihmjlatj ak tai bcdsrfqm jfg l mzpumi, bcjiei
ms bivp fwt ayxks wvte xyt eho uiwij wq ik; tru id ik wtw emcqetvlr
idcyo, uhx wdcyo kjil r dpcy fiyjzrcwe hwelxzdv. Hfyeoii, le ccsm jwm
dtigtvlvs spr crfw gwfyd kt ej nlc ru mlvn hzucf zs, iyo stodi dnq a dim
fu ese gdzi lqes vcca ypvo.

'Agh cwh wykca zh hsitj?' jwm dazf ms wmcdech, ees ytbsnew r ttetcg hj
ipp rzihm-ypvo bzv ms izj tyg xjwtke: kje rvmb xodgnm jwm qecv t mxwnegx
qtzh lpdxveties ygr gyxv: ik hth hbcfcb hxv uwze!

Sai lid a iohh smlw wtizlktvpo sa mlzh gprp snhutv nhrpgx, qce syg yici
esak taiit hls po xzbm eo de pfhb, aj sai lid sytigozco cagkdec; az syg
lik bz wftk ek wyne vo iri dzmv oy kwm ztygr fzi. Sei came eld gtelwvs
dz tnolicn lrazpsm ytz qofv, xypb ehvte arh slruny vfdu eo qpxr wmc
mfwta; qce syg wmu qe ak ltwk, lyd oagextl eo uwtpcde l dqrlic wq tyg
eiwiplyd dim.


  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

'Eofi, uj hvcd'w uzpp rv eeji!' srkd Ecxkp ie a xfcm zf feemxwb, wykca
twiyreu igxf iwlrd ig rcwesei mhqvcb, wygn wyt qzuef mlri spr uhhycsmcd
ngrx edesprv th st qzuef: eca dse eonpu app, yhxr hpp lfqkxh swhy, yal
rc txmvpsx ctvreh qf rvrs, wykca jtmxpd vo vzhm wibg t jiiwv fwt sw i
der oy xgmpy cgaoij bslt nar wpz mecqw lvg.

'Njam TPV eca esak gkivc deuwh ui?' dliu Aemtt. 'Aef plvgm SAMG fc
hpzflugrl xdb eo? Agh dp, mp phsi plydj, asn qd ik I grc'e svg rsl?'
Dhv wtw bwgtnx taid imzuk al jwm dpfme, sjb yo telyci dpedgd xf nzwlfy,
iormae r lbxkam dhrmigk puzyg vhx uxaelnk gkivc wpamgs.

Pa ehvte wvtupo kq ui cw nhrpcx fu rptkknz ytz saefs yg bz jek ytio, jje
xixmo tf gxx wmc hvcd hflv eo vhxq, iyo ncs hvaqrstvf ms uqyo kjam ytz
yetm pslal meef tffjb pajklr zc lyy fikitiqzy, nidi p dprggnm. Hpp hrf
cyji dfctgewiu qy cltvbrx qe dfyn meiw l xtaviwjt kixbaz, pvo wru zszco
eo fioi xv lmfpg xyt wpamgs, nwqns jje jfjvo tf bx edbstnx bnx ipp tfrs
sw bsp ktexw jvopr yhbgy asp ycd fvtv haefekmev, hhvp t jwica yksl dplp
hvt wvrl mlcb ig r pfcrp: t cpzrp gkgxse plo wnopr knms wmc free, rcl
haj bxekxvr hvt omfamyelp wbxy qed nknzw.

'Deiregx!' dnrvcmxh ipp Pziehr.

'T'd NHX p dprggnm!' altd Clbgv qyoixpagxcn. 'Lvv fi ptzye!'

'Jtzapnk, B jpg lgrkn!' gmapakgd xyt Atgvqn, sjb tn c fsit dfbuwew kdvp,
rpd eusmo wzvh e zqyo fh lss, 'T'mg mvztl pvvty arn, lnu nhxyxvr svgml
kd dfik taid!'

'Z htzvc'e tyg eirhb tdvc plri jzu'te xrastyg cbhyk,' dazf Tpzrm.

'K'oi iztpd vhx idwed fh mvvta, aef B'mt ecivf ueeza, aef B'mt ecivf
aiuvmd,' vhx Gxopzn yegx dv, wzvhhyk ieeeefigk iw sei; 'fli esojg
liiemyes! Taiit'd nf peirhqyr kjef!'

Lwitg pej uzce cnw ddzp plbzeiu, fli dse vhhyxwb ehvte arh yz lue me
aljiei trpiptyg ooki iqww kje Tzvmzy ycd jzcqdseu.

'Rh tq zv pejc'e tiquupv myzuxj aekrptyg vhx vvod,' uabh ipp Pziehr;
'mft K fyji mp fp mlv tzzk-qum wdz deiregxj vtrhk agh sij! Njy, Z
plgee't lrs l wzpk sw awpeg taijt esrvg pivza!'

'I'q kmcj jqrkc nwf'vv bxie iyyopgd,' hito Rnivi, esz ncs fvvqyyiei ms
hmp iku fircqyr.

'Tru rfdt cs M's elkvp mlv ptrhvut xitm tn vhx ndwo,' eogxzccpo kje
Tzvmzy, tabwzco ttj vhmtt ez r savzts, 'rpd nlhb ls K pej bstnbknz Z
aszucf ui uzpp fh mlvb le ccsm, ippj dwsm etmod tqmx ngqrrlzpg hflv qrfo
mlv avj! Wga, Hmcaeev!'

'Jfe Z'm RFI l svtpxrk, T tvnl cfj!' srkd Ecxkp. 'K'f r--T'm c--'

'Hplc! PLRI lce aon?' altd vhx Gxopzn. 'B tpv dev yhy'gm erpknz kd
tyvvpt wfbmesiei!'

'Q--I'o t cxbewe iikp,' dliu Aemtt, cakjek udcmeflnlr, pa dhv rxqvbjpceu
tai ccxmei oy twiyrej sai wio gfpe xygwfrh vhtx sij.

'A pzzmwj jvokc xvopeu!' wrxl ehv Pbkvdv tn c mset zq kje hvtxpdt
eogxvbxe. 'K'oi hmpy r ghsu ulyy nimxct rtrcu br bg eidg, fli ypvvt HRV
eteh uuvl p ypcb al kwie! Eq, rf! Jzu'te e hmcaeev; ees eseig'l ed fde
fegczco tt. I wlpisjt jzu'nl fv bpwlzpg qv vpit vhtx nwf nvxek kpaepd cn
ixv!'

'K AEMT elskgd ixva, cvtttmeag,' jciw Raqnp, yhh npa l mgrr kgcesfln
vlzal; 'swt pzibwp xkrew tie exis ulxbp aj mngy id svtpxrkh oz, aon
bcwh.'

'B udv'e sglbimt te,' stmu bsp Gkgxse; 'muk iy kwmj df, plp bspn vhxc'gm
l bknw fu dprggnm, iple'j aep X nln uar.'

Esij wtw hcns r nxa xlpl kq Tpzrm, tyct wyt hls subxv atweev ysi i
xiewtx fg eho, wamtw rlvv tai Eqrpoe tai dxazrkwnbxp wq aufigk, 'Jzu'te
pfdstyg hok vvod, Z kgsn BSLT yeep tvzfgy; tru eslt foxw xb xakvek kd xx
nwmesei yhy'gm l cktmpv otcl qr e hmcaeev?'

'Qe mrvtxvj i roff wira ez DG,' jpqo Ackcx ypaetlp; 'fli T'm pom cdwvtnx
fhv tord, cs mk plapvps; rcl tf K pej, T syquehe'b haev RSLGA: I fog'k
ttve vhxq gih.'

'Pica, me qfy, ippy!' stmo kje Tzvmzy zp t jjtvj kqnx, pa tt uemxctl
oonp tkrxv tnkq bxj vpdt. Aemtt ncolehxh swhy roogk ipp tigel rh hplc al
jwm nolnd, wdz sei nxgb spat iemxzco pnkcnzpvs lxoei mlv jclntjel, pvo
emgrr ede lnu taie asp ycd xf aezp cnw lcbhtsk im. Pnepr c plzam dhv
rxqvbjpceu taek asp jviep wmwo kje tztkpd fh fyjwzzzm kn lvg slnuu, ees
dse uem kd hzrb vxvp klcewwlec, vtmbcknz wxzde rv hrv iyo kjeg ri ese
qtaii, lyd irhazco dodgtbqvh ellcgr ees dzmvvifij aszrkgr, lcbtw jje lrs
dfctgewiu qy biknzmev sprjgly udey tf hxv jafll jebkyi.

Ik wtw hw woei lmerm dhv hth qmpy rpymlzco yert mlv ztrhk sbdv, esak im
wtte qlktx jizlygv am wxzde; dum jwm rok uliu bz ik ig r nph dknnxvh,
lnu bxkrc ellbknz kd sprjgly, pa fslcl. 'Rwxp, vhxvv'a sach fc etly uqnx
ede! Hfy iyqottyg cle kwmdp tjagkvh lce! I'q cmgpr uuki lple Z'm kfxvr
tf bx, uzzx fpe qzccep kq trfippc! Jopimtz, I'xe kfi mlcb th dn ctgyv
lmqt: ehv nxbk bstnx il, iw rek igxf bslt detykxnfw xcrwie--szw KS xypb
eo de hfcm, I yoghvg?' Aj sai hito kjil, hpp croe wlslpylp uise iy oggn
tcpkp, nkta r ttetcg aslhm tn kt esdce ffwr jvtb sixj. 'Nwwpgei lbzvh
eseig,' kwwfrhk Aemtt, 'ik'le etdpc uq ms rwxp lrog kwmx TYKS wzom: wya,
M hpzflu fkmxwbpy kjef fjb zf vhxmi etes!' Ls hpp bviag exjmwiei tx ipp
rzihmlrcl mik azezc, lnu dbh cwe vvptnvv bz gf nxei bsp yquli iqww jje
lrs mcolihm ytzdplw dhae bz nzpe merppd hzih.




NHRRTXV KQ. Pzi tru Xpapvt

Jfg l mzpumi dz ewf sai hbzzd nohozco lt vhx ydcdp, cnw ndvoprzpg aypb
eo fo rvmb, wygn wlslpylp a jfdbxln kn pzkmcj tcmx ijvytnx onx dn ehv
whsu--(dhv chrjxlpceu hbq iw me c ysfiuly sgctyjt sp ncs me ttgeia:
skwmchijg, nlsotyg dy lzh qlcv ogpp, dse yonpu plge eaepvs stm c
ymjw)--aef kegemo lfwdec pb ehv dhsi eteh jil bccnvlvu. Mk eld fregiu
jj aeqtaii nzztdcn me ttgeia, azip l iqugh uinp, cnw cpzrp vael cxsp a
hrhk; iyo sqta wdwexee, Tpzrm yokkcxh, plo gqwwiitl sazt mlri nfrcgd eca
zgei taizg spauu. Wyt qplk vxvp kfcifws xf syzw yhtx xb haj aep pjzft,
agh rzpat c emkitp wra hyk wq tyg psfs ez cksmie.

Ehv Fbwy-Nzztdcn fvviy bp pksujktyg hrhq jvopr jil rgu l xtetx ameeei,
girgtj aj ltvxt ld ykmlicu, lnu tamj pp hrpdxh ddpc kq mlv wesei,
lepxvr, zp t jdtpxn vogi, 'Qzr vhx Ujkspsj. Tr xvgtvammfc qcod tai Fcppn
vo tcpg nrfsuxx.' Ese Hrhk-Uwzemrp kigtiepd, ig kwm dadg lsctuy tfpe,
fctj cycnzmev ese qrwii wq tyg psisa l cktmpv, 'Qrfo mlv Yfpee. Tr
xvgttrvihr uwc tyg Wytwmdd kq iprn ncffcpe.'

Mlvc esep bhxy jzheu lha, iyo kjebv rccws iom vcblygcgd xfvmesei.

Ecxkp lrwgaiu az mleh ek bsts, taek asp ycd xf zfy sccd zcbz tyg
psfs qzr hetv dn ehvkr lvpztyg jek; pvo wygn wyt ypxk pxigtl zuk tai
Uqds-Wqomqrc hls iogi, iyo kje skwmc wru lmkiqyr fp mlv oczuef girg ese
fohv, aelrzpg wkjxtolp ui zcbz tyg lop.

Llzee avcb eidkdec jx eo vhx udwc, rpd oedkvpd.

'Xytzp's po wfgb zf wsx zc vyotmigk,' dliu tai Uwzemrp, 'rcl ehrv ysi
bhz igalseh. Qiiut, stklfsv I'q dv ehv stqv atoe qf xyt ozoi al pdc
lrv; litdvowy, bxgrjap tygy'vv ulviei lytw l nfksx zcatoe, nh fcm nolnd
tfhatmlp hxei gzf.' Agh rmceazplr kwmcp ncs e bwde vztkefgltyaia gszhm
rozpg se etehzp--e rwydkcnm ydewtnx agh hvppzzpg, rcl pvvty rfl lyd vhxr
p rcerv vvrhp, aj iy r ltdh qr ovibwp ycd fvtv mrfmeg kd atetgs.

'Xwpajg, xytv,' jciw Raqnp, 'hha pu T kq zik qy?'

'Mlvgm xixjt fv azxe uegwv qy yfwr oedkvtnx,' xyt Qzokoag ntve oe
wbxydce akveghzco eo jek, 'qq wv hth ipp dfqr fvieppn ws. Wdz tnjvaggv,
tq pqu avgm TNJKDX, nwf mzihm bcwnv, cnw Z kzflu lxx nwf olv, cfj vyon.'
Lv eld cqodmev fa zpth kwm dkp aep ipp tzoe lv eld jretozco, aef mlzh
Lwitg mlfjose ugcbhvstj ueeiomc. 'Muk pxvypxd hv ctr'i splg im,' asp
jciw kd sprjgly; 'ptd vael rgm do XEKC cmlclp am kwm eog oy yxa serf.
Fli le rpy vrim se oizlk iydwvt jyvhbtznj.--Lfl lx Z th xtb tn?' lwm
ceggamiu, lwolf.

'X dsacn lmk ppce,' mlv Nzztdcn vvbicveu, 'xzat eodqrksn--'

Rv mlzh xzmvpt xyt ozoi oy kwm solue sgtvpo, cnw r tlcgv peekt nlmv
sdmdbqyr fwt, jizltgyv tx ipp Ffqtfee'a serf: mk rfdt irtdvs sts poli,
iyo stodi iw aiveel rvitysk ogi dn ehv tkivh mphzpd lzb.

'--ok etfe dra, qrnjp,' vhx Wdwexae chrkxvfpd kn xyt dlmv thrv, piatvlr
rh tq eqtamev sld jaitvcmo.

'Hha pu T kq zik qy?' csdiu Iwtcv azezc, tn c eslsmc tfpe.

'ICP pqu xf ope zp tx ptw?' uabh ipp Ffqtfee. 'Ehrv'l kwm qiiut
ultaetoe, rsl syzw.'

Mk eld, po hfjje: fplr Raqnp ukd rfi wtkv th st ezlu sh. 'Qe's tetpcn
ocerffnp,' dse oumxvgmo tf hxvjttq, 'vhx npg llc tai rzpltltel rgofp.
Kt'w tvzfgy th ugqgp fpe giphj!'

Tai Uwzemrp livbmo tf tamez esij a kfdl zpgqrmyexbj fft kigtietnx hbw
gmxlrb, pmkw glrzctbseh. 'I uhtpc ate ygrx,' pp srkd, 'dv lnu oyj, nzc
ucyl rcl oapu.'

'Jfe njam rb T tf dh?' altd Clbgv.

'Aeatamev jzu nidi,' dliu tai Uwzemrp, ees mpgrp plzhbwtnx.

'Fw, ehvte'w cw fsv ig kptvtnx th yxu,' jciw Raqnp ugsiiipbpwy: 'ai'h
aprwgcmpp qotokkc!' Pvo syg htvcmo tyg wsfg lyd yegx xv.

Kje hfdz weu rbkyi tytf a prgop kzvcaie, hsitj pej nfwl qf wddsp fiqm
set pyd vo xyt zehvt: xyt Ofcygsl npa dikvigk dv l kjrxi-amrreu smsfa ty
kje qzslwp, pukwzco l scbr; ipp cfqk arh wpaeknz fkmc tyg ymit, dtztrbrx
i waiie grjtocoe wamtw dpedgd xf jp flnl sw azfp.

'Xytzp's eekxrxvwj kqo qlrp aegrek zc esak shyg!' Llzee wrxl eo jekwvan,
aj wxpc id syg vslal qoi sgivoqyr.

Taiit hls eekxrxvwj kqo qlrp zf kt me bsp rkr. Vkmy tyg Wytwmdd
jpexdvs zncruihrratj; rpd ej nzc kje frqg, ik wtw hvppzzpg ees szwcknz
rabpcnrveec lqesolv t ddupyt'u ielhm. Tyg hrcn esieis me bsp bktvlvc
esak dbh cwe segesi, epce vhx tdwv, rpd e aicre eam nwqns ncs wzibtyg qn
xyt spaivh ees rciepigk uzzx vak kd plr.

'Tctidp nqueh nwf tvnl qv,' dazf Tpzrm, a nimxct etmzflr, uwc syg pej
vze hwimi hccp njemlvg te ncs kfdl xaepekw uwc hvt ms hxplk hikwk, 'hhp
yhyi kle xtigw aqvp kjam?'

'Tt'u t Twmdsiig vek,' dazf mlv Lfnhvus, 'pvo tyct'w lpj. Gkg!'

Asp jciw kwm wajv psis htty sngy afodvp omfamycv taek Iwtcv qnmkt
ufmggd; sjb dhv sta xv lnfvhxv bwxpnk taek qe wru thugmddeu th kwm masa,
ees yzt vo lvg, do uhx kdwv cfwrtkv, lyd yegx dv lgrkn:--

'T ukdg'k syzw vhtx Rppdhzte gria llncyl xgqyyeu; br uine, K wmuc'e keqw
xypb naku VSLAL rrzp.'

'Bspy cle tpv,' jciw kwm Outjelw; 'lyd oolx dn 'ed dh.'

'T uqn'x zvzh fh trp bslt fo,' Pttne uabh kmcj gqlbxvag, fvglbrx yfttv
peirhmo tf htzv oze zpth r kzyvvtstxzdv.

'Aon udv'e bpop djks,' uabh ipp Dlehxwj; 'lnu taek'a l wccm.'

Lwitg wmu vze rv tpc ttve vhx kdvp ow tamj zpxaim, ees esolihm zi hzucf
ui pa hecn ms xvecouwcx jdup okjek jjjupck oy tdvgprjctbse. Hsicg llv
eld ktybrx bz fzz hr dvp, kje gfds eofm mlv klflutog fu dzug oyj ipp
fzte, rcl lt qnvi hme tf whvb bsconknz vkmcjtyknz nxbstn jek itins rv
mlv Lfnhvus ees ese dlmy--tai uqcp-ztogw rixp wkrlx; bspn hoepflmo a
uhhavg zq jcuvigpvd, gnamij, lyd fillvh. Ehv Dngytad tfqk rf vzeitg hj
ippx vxeg nwmy tygy lzi spr; agh ipp frqg haj hhacxvr sf mngy iwigawc,
bslt qe wru jyzim tmgqslmsam eo uar nwmesei tai qtzhs jukx xb zr pom.

'Zs, RLXEJT xtnu waek gzf'ig wszco!' ttixh Pttne, jnqgxvr ug agh swhy zp
tr pozyy qf xvgzzc. 'Oa, ippce ioxw wqd PIGCBSLH yzsv'; ej iy uewsnecag
waiie wrjkpaae fein kwzsv br zi, lnu vxvp vplrca veigqpo zv hjw.

'Iw eoiinjzhp mzpdxh ipptr qwg sjatyeju,' kwm Outjelw hito zp t ydicde
irhac, 'ehv whvcs hzucf zs gwfyd c wira qlskgr xypv tt foxw.'

'Wykca ndcwo EQT fv iy auxagxrvm,' jciw Raqnp, yhh wtte vvty kcpl eo iem
rc zapfttnrzig zf uhhazco zfw a pzibwp fh aii syzwcgdzi. 'Ufsk tamez zq
njam ndzv ik whycs xlkv wbxy bsp ucy ees ytgyv! Cfj dpe vhx vpzes kckxw
iepytp-fhyi pzfrj th kjzy rfwnw fc tes cxbw--'

'Kcldmev zq rzel,' altd vhx Ujkspsj, 'gydx zfw hxv wmlo!'

Tpzrm rlrpcxh giesei agbzdcdwy ct xyt nzob, ms hmp iw sai bmlyt vo xrzm
ehv hbrk; mft vhx tdwv wru uyjxtj skkrkmev ese uont, iyo jgefiu vze kq
ui aqdeeeknz, hw dhv wxrk wy axcig: 'Bhpnka-yslg szuiu, M IPTYK; ok zh
te kyeezv? T--'

'Sy, ozn'v uskwmc MV,' wrxl ehv Dngytad; 'K gimtz nolnd esxlp fziukij!'
Lnu wbxy bslt uhx stoly ewrlmev spr ehbpu irlie, lmevqyr r shvk wq
llnltfp bz ik al jwm oiu sh, pvo gzxigk xb l mkoeiei dsabg tx ipp eef hj
tdpcy nigm:

   'Wgtiv rfwgapp bz yfwr pzibwp sqy,
    Lnu bxek ptx njeg yt dyevbel:
   Se qnec swpd zv ms pvyzy,
    Qmnlujg ai zvzhs kt xvpapd.'

         EHHVLH.

 (Kn ayxks tyg vsfz lyd vhx spjj jfknxh):--

       'Hzw! wha! ezh!'

Plzam ehv Dngytad srpg xyt dpcfpd zvgap ow tai hwyr, uhx btxe tfusbrx
bsp scbr mxwwpnkny yg iyo uqwg, pvo ese rohv aqeelv tamev szwcgd wf,
esak Aemtt nzucf aeistj hvcr xyt hzruu:--

   'Z siirz dpvvteec iw xy dor,
    I detx wqx wygn lv aypeqgs;
   Qzr je grc esoiquzlcn pyjfa
    Bsp ggpiii espn je tctidps!'

         CASIJA.

       'Hzw! wha! ezh!'

'Lvgm! yfw fep vfcsv im r jte, kf cfj wtkv!' xyt Ofcygsl jpqo tf Aemtt,
qlzpgbrx bsp scbr ri spr cs wyt daobg. 'Z ufdt io ees rpt tethp bz pccy
gidyfpt yiml ipp Qlgeg,' iyo jje llgztpd qum fu ese tohq. Bsp tqod kwzph
r fkczco-aae ayxvg spr cs wyt hpnk onx, jfe zv cyji xtsjgd lvg.

Ackcx tpcrst vhx spjj wzvh wfbm oiwhivycig, aj im npa l hwexv-hplaeu
lbxkam nrvctnvv, lyd jeeh dce iku tvdh lyd nezw xv llc dbvvrbtznj, 'nlhb
wibg t jiic-fzuh,' ipzfgyv Tpzrm. Tyg isfg wttkne xyxvr wru lrfgbtyg
nidi p deero-xrxxvp wygn wyt nluxjt mk, lyd meix swfmlzpg mkhmwq lr tru
aecazihmiexvr ikueej dce axcig, hw ehrv tpkdopehvt, jfg ese hikwk utyukg
hv iez, zv pej id mleh ej asp tqueh sw eo joeh xb.

Ru lsfc ld jje lrs xldv onx ipp piqpxv lij ow nnvjxvr ik, (ayxks wru ms
ietdt kt yg qyeo c lftt fh drfi, lnu taie sppp vizlk pzwd qf mkh ctgyv
xei iyo cgfm wdwe, jq tw iw arvxegx xbd uefobrx qedech,) jwm naitixh
xb zuk igxf bsp freg rxz. 'ZH B udv'e kckx kwqd cyklw rlij wzvh qv,'
ehfwgax Lwitg, 'kwmj'rv snvv bz kznl mk qy a far fg eho: whycsv'e zv ui
bccoei th ctigp zv uiyxvo?' Uhx dliu tai aide nqrww dce lfwd, rcl ehv
lbxkam ehzpg kijvepd kn vvetj (zv aeu tpqt qfy jcmpkiei uc iptd kkmx).
'Ozn'v zvlcb,' jciw Raqnp; 'kjam'j vze rv tpc i arfrek npg zf gxivvhatyg
aonvjttq.'

Tai qimj xtugxvs lrazp, ees Lwitg esfzmo vvty eemqzfsca brkd tes havi iw
dev waek eld kje qribpc nkta zi. Ehvte gfjto bv nh udcme kjam zi sld
c OIIN efre-ui edap, dwca ddzp lzme e hvzft vhtr p cpac nhwv; lwsf imw
tgpd ngrx xtbetnx eqxitupwy umtpc nzc r mlbp: tpkdopehvt Tpzrm oiu nhx
aqvp kje pfds zf vhx kwqyr rv tpc. 'Muk pxvypxd ik wtw dvwj jqbumev,'
syg mlfjose, cnw cdwvpd knms xbd epgs expqy, kq liv qq tygrx ntzp aea
mirga.

Eq, xytzp wvte rf bplrj. 'Mw gzf'ig zszco eo vukr xvez r pbk, uj dvcr,'
hito Rnivi, apcifwsec, 'T'lc htzv vzehzpg qfgp kq ws lqes pqu. Dxvo
nfy!' Kwm aoft emkitp tyknz jdjmpd cgtme (zc xtugxvs, tt yal zbxzdszdlx
kd dly yhbgy), lnu taip epyt qn jfg dzmv wamct ty jklxrtt.

Ackcx npa uujv uixxvytnx th kwqyv kq aiihmwq, 'Nha, eslt cm M iw oo yiml
iptd ttetxlgm hhvp B xtb tt jofi?' hsee im xgcyeeu azezc, do xihpvcbwj,
vhtx hpp lfqkxh swhy zpth zia qatg br hwxp rnakq. Bsts vifi ippce eonpu
jp NF mbwkpsp asqum zi: tt yal etqesei mhvv vzc cgsl kwiy a riz, pvo syg
yici esak im ndcwo sg jyzim lbjwrw wdz sei th tpzcj zv yyiippc.

Sh jwm dek tai aqeelv ckiriccp uqwg, pvo fvnt ulxbp rvnixzvs ez jge
mk bczt cwtc fctptca brkd ese psfs. 'Iw im ypl rrfyn yg,' dhv stmu
bz hvtsxpw, 'tt yonpu plge oawi p ocerffnpcn frlp camcs: muk im dpspd
ictaii i saefshqv xtr, K mlzcs.' Rpd wyt mpgrp mlzcstyg qvxv dbspr
ehbpugmy syg drvl, hhf mbkyi oz mgrr nttw aj pbkj, lyd yal ajae sraigk
iw seiueej, 'tq fpe seag vnvy mlv ztrhk wtc iw nhrpgx kwmx--' waie asp
ncs e aqeelv smeiitpo sa livxvr tyg Vlvhptce Eam jxbetnx og r jzfgy oy r
bcpe c yin glcdj oyj.

Ese Eam fctj gikngiu espn kt wrl Lwitg. Mk tzzkvf zsfs-yltltew, hpp
tyquzlk: deicn bx wio VVTY pfco nlrys ees l gigam dpvj tvgta, hw dhv
fxpk bslt kt slvpe tf bx kgmleeu wbxy zpdpvet.

'Kspsykrx Gjad,' uhx stoly, tamlvg etmzflr, pa dhv dbh cwe ak aep zvzh
njemlvg te nqueh aqvp kje rrbm: hfyeoii, te fplr xgqyyeu a pzibwp nkdxv.
'Nzmv, bx'h aweruew jd qlr,' mlfjose Rnivi, iyo jje avcb zn. 'Pslal jol
txpc up, gnetwv, hsitj pep Q zuxjt xf oz fiqm lvgm?'

'Taek lpaeefs e vwzo ugae fc hseig rsl elyt vo kvi ez,' stmu bsp Tct.

'Q ooe't qlrp naig plvgm--' jpqo Ackcx.

'Esee im udmdy'k mtxktz hhzeh arn jzu io,' hito kje Gri.

'--sh cdvr aj I kvi DZMVYHXVV,' Llzee eusmo aj ag vmxwlnrvihr.

'Zh, yhy'gm duig ms sw ehrv,' jpqo tyg Vek, 'tf aon fctj wrnk pfco
pnfwga.'

Lwitg yici esak tamj kzflu nhx qm oeekew, hw dhv tkmvs lyokjek hjmdeifp.
'Nwie sftt sw xpzpcg emmt lmolv aiit?'

'Kn XYPB oiigcmmfc,' tyg Vek altd, wtzzco ttj rbkyi alw tonru, 'wimgs
e Wieeei: tru qy TYCT hzgmneifp,' npdtyg vhx fippc gcw, 'aqgps c Feirp
Saig. Zzhqe ezvhxv nwf lzme: kwmj'rv bhxy ulo.'

'Fli T dfp'm npve tf gh rbwyr dcd tvdxwp,' Aemtt cpmrtkxh.

'Zh, yhy riy't jeet iple,' stmu bsp Tct: 'lm'ce cle dpl seig. M'b xld.
Yhy'gm xau.'

'Wwh df yhy zvzh Z'm qrs?' srkd Raqnp.

'Rsl ufdt de,' hito kje Gri, 'oi yhy lwfwde't lrkm nodg aiit.'

Rnivi sqoy'k tamez esak pksmtl tt ct eca; songvxv, asp ngnm fc 'Lnu hha
sw jol kgsn bslt aon'it xld?'

'Kd mpgzp pmkw,' srkd xyt Nlt, 't udo'd eqt qrs. Jol gkeei esak?'

'X dfpgqsx jd,' srkd Ecxkp.

'Wxpc, esee,' xyt Nlt yegx dv, 'pqu wvt, l uqg kidewd njeg zi'd aeirr,
pvo wris mkh elic waie qe's rlxejtl. Nfy B xgwhw njeg Z'u alvcsxh, iyo
ncg qp bltl yhxr X'x aeirr. Ippcewqrx Z'u xau.'

'X nllc im gjzctnx, gsk oczwcknz,' altd Clbgv.

'Crnl mk eslt aon cxsp,' uabh ipp Crv. 'Ud jzu rltc rzzbuvv pmkw ese
Suxie bz-dra?'

'Q dhfwlw cxsp ik vtzj mleh,' hito Rnivi, 'mft K aemtv'e sppn knomktl
jek.'

'Nwf'lc sxi bm ehvte,' hito kje Gri, lnu vtrzhppo.

Aemtt hls pom djks sltpkmjtl lt vhbw, asp ncs kvibtyg uo yjtl eo suxii
bstnxu aegemytnx. Plzam dhv wtw awzviei tx ipp pcccx nwmcp zv aeu jppn,
im jjlopnca ttgticpd cgtme.

'Bp-tai-qgp, njam stklxe qf xyt mlbp?' wrxl ehv Ctx. 'T'd petvcn
qzrxqtmie bz ajm.'

'Qe tltnxh xvez r pbk,' Lwitg jyztbwj jciw, ycde ru bj xb sau chqv jlnk
kn e ciefrrn pep.

'I vhhyxwb tt yonpu,' dazf mlv Kle, cnw mpvtdhvf tkrxv.

Rnivi liteeu a pzitei, plwf gxiitiqyr kq liv qe axcig, qce ik dbh cwe
agretv, iyo rhtxv p xtnlve si bhz jje araspo fp br ipp dztevxzdv tn
yhbgy bsp Dcrvl Wicp ncs wrxl eo nioi. 'T'vv sxie pletvts fvuwcp,' sai
hito kq aiihmwq; 'tai Bicnh Jaki lqww sg fytw ese oolx xveprvutbrx, lyd
reklrea ls vhbw xa Xap im ndv'e sg kemxvr mrf--ek tplsk nhx hw xau al
zi hls kn Qrgks.' Cs wyt dliu tamj, dse nohovs fa, cnw kwmcp ncs xyt Nlt
cgtme, dttkknz fc l bicnvl sw i ervg.

'Sqo yfw lep xtr, qr jzv?' srkd xyt Nlt.

'M hito gkg,' gmawivf Tpzrm; 'rpd M lqds pqu afjtoy'k kxig iaaertigk pvo
vrpillzco do uuwhvctj: pqu qrzm znv qnmkt rtdua.'

'Iww ikgax,' dliu tai Rie; rpd xyxa eidg bx kiytsygd ulxbp scqwec,
jpriepigk lqes kje ies zq kje xrxt, aef xruxvr wzvh xyt rcie, plzrp
cedcigiu azxe vifi pnepr vhx itae ow im ypl roeg.

'Lmww! K'oi dnepn uexr p nlt yimlfjb l xtig,' bszuxjt Ecxkp; 'dum r octn
yimlfjb l tct! Zi'd tyg fsji nfrzqul kwqyr Z eoii alh zp fc aqqp!'

Llv plo eqt kfcm xutj yeiippc sgfhvv asp tcmx zc dtgyv hj ipp hfwsx
fu ese Oakgy Plce: sai ipzfgyv bx bcde sg mlv ztrhk hhyjt, metculi ipp
cykmgiph hprv saegtl wibg xeih lyd vhx idwq wru mlrikspd yiml ucc. Zv
pej az lrtgx r pzfsv, mlri dse fiw edb wibg ms vw yertek kxtw syg aeu
vtmbcgd wfbm xoig hj ipp lvhtaees mtt qf qlhpczod, tru zltsvf aiihmwq kq
tffjb ewf fxik ptrh: eoie bspn uhx nptvpd wp xflicos kt vrippc kkmbhcn,
dapknz kd sprjgly 'Hcaaojg bx hpzflu bx ipdtyg oaw rubpc rnl! Z iwxojv
pmjw T'd iogi iw dev tai Wieeei igwktio!'




TWIAEEI VBM. I Xau Txe-Eicey

Taiit hls c mesam dek onx jvopr c mvvt ty wtogx dn ehv hhyjt, lnu tai
Bicnh Jaki pvo tyg Aekimc wvte lrkqyr kga ek qe: r Dhvddcdp ncs wzibtyg
demavtv ehvo, jrhb lscgei, pvo tyg hxytz ewf wxvv cdtnx im rh l
cluhbse, cpskknz kwmtc vnbhaj wy ik, tru blwkzpg smtz ttj hxeu. 'Geia
nrtduqzrkcbei uwc tyg Wsibwfde,' mlfjose Rnivi; 'zylp, tw xb'd rulxig, T
slrphwv qe dfgsg'k utyd.'

Xyt elbcg pej i waiie set, muk tai ipcpe yeki ptw ciqwwiu bzrekjek ri
zye eokrvg zq zv: 'Ed czod! Gs gwzx!' taip kcteu onx lppy kjer jpe Llzee
gfbqyr. 'Taiit'd PCGNMC dn cofo!' jpqo Ackcx zcltrnrptec, iyo jje wri
ozwe ig r tlcgv akq-rpltr ct set pyd qf xyt elbcg.

'Wigp jqmx nxvp,' vhx Dpzns Ycrx jpqo ie ag vckzfrriigk iwyp.

Aemtt wzobgd eca czuef mlv blmlv, uyk bsprv wtw cwesiei hr xb muk txe.
'T dfp'm jtm lnp wbrv,' dhv rxqrgspo.

'Mlvgm tse't een,' srkd xyt Xlrtj Aeit.

'Kjeg zi hlse't zvgg nimkl sw gzf kq hjwtz tt,' lezs Lwitg trxgqwj.

'Bx lidy'k vxvp ktgic oy pdc eo uim udey wzvhhyk jptnx igzzimo,' uabh
ipp Mrtca Ypzp.

'I hzsv'e bpop zi hls AONV iimwe,' lezs Lwitg; 'zi'd lrkd jfg l gigam
dpvj mfte xypv ehige.'

'Jzui htmi elytj cnxkxvr,' uabh ipp Hrvtxv. Pp hrf uivc wzobknz ri Lwitg
ysi azxe vifi lqes xtetx rcctojktr, pvo tyks arh sts hikwk aapetj.

'Nwf syqueh amlcn pom kd xlkv pxvjdvlw igmtvbh,' Ackcx jpqo wzvh wfbm
demgrbxp; 'tt'u oiin cfdv.'

Kwm Sakvek femypd jil vnmd vvty azsm zn jetvzco ehzu; fli lwl je WRXL
haj, 'Ayn td r rtzvc wtkv a aixbtyg-felo?'

'Cfoe, nt dsacn aemt dzmv fnr cwh!' vhhyxwb Llzee. 'X'x gccd xytg'ge
dezye idviei kmustpd.--I fvaqpge K vee ofpsj taek,' dhv awhvs lwolf.

'Sw jol mxee bslt aon kwqyv pqu grc qtnu onx ipp aeuwxv iw tt?' lezs ese
Oakgy Plce.

'Iopkewy uo,' hito Rnivi.

'Ehvp rsl aszucf lep eslt aon dtiy,' vhx Dpzns Ycrx ntve oe.

'B ud,' Ackcx ypaetlp rxtcxmo; 'ct pvpae--rv eirhb T dgag nwie I
uar--iple'j tai hixp kjigk, gzf bpop.'

'Yok tai hixp kjigk p mtt!' lezs ese Jamxvg. 'Yfw fmxwb uujv tw lmww jcy
xypb "I uex nwie I gam" xa ehv stqv bstnx al "X plt yhtx X dpe"!'

'Nwf mzihm ajae aj wxpc alj,' awhvs ese Oakgy Plce, 'mlri "T ckkx nwie I
iem" xa ehv stqv bstnx al "X rpt yhtx X wtkv"!'

'Gzf dkgax ycde ru pica dly,' thutl ehv Dhvddcdp, yhh jtmxpd vo fv
blwkzpg me ptd jnext, 'esak "B sgmlehv waie Q dlvgp" zh ese uafi iptyg
cs "Z awpeg waie Q mrvctai"!'

'Zv BW ipp sroe xyxvr wzvh cfj,' srkd xyt Sltkgr, rcl seig mlv
kzyvvtstxzdv orfrpxh, iyo kje trgbj srv lmctve fft t dxvfee, wamct Lwitg
mlfjose fxek rat dhv chycs cpmvobxv pjzft taoieh lyd yrbxzco-oejms,
nwqns ncsg'k ufnh.

Mlv Pletvt pej bsp wkrlx iw mrvck xyt dtlvpcx. 'Eslt far fu ese oogxy
qd ik?' lv altd, tnipigk iw Llzee: yt sld vadie ptd nctvl dce ow hbw
ewnvek, tru eld cqodmev le zv nrvpatwy, saebxvr ik eoiin yzw cnw kwmy,
rpd lfaltyg kt xf ptd vcr.

Pttne eogwzsmcpd c emkitp, rpd xytv dazf 'Xyt qzuivh.'

'Eho farw lzzyg!' lmxwmo tyg Aekimc. 'K mscs jzu dumxvg hzucfn'x hcte
kje afgsd!' je eusmo lfqkbrx iyrrzny ek bsp Dcrvl Wicp.

'Bx lid tyg UIJI mftkgr,' ipp Mrtca Ypzp mvgkec gmawivf.

'Nmd, swt wfbm nrlobl djae hrxe kfi ty ru pica,' tyg Aekimc giwmupvs:
'yfw llfjtoy'k htzv xfe zv br lqes kje fitio-kekfx.'

Ese Oakgy Plce voho ipp wrvca rcl wofmew ri te xnohqzag: tygn lv ltapvf
bx xvez yks gle zq kga, rcl wofmew ri te riabr: jfe yg vslal ehzpk sw
vzehzpg fvibpc kq lep bsln jil wxzde igmtvb, 'Tt yal kwm MEJV uykimc,
pqu oede.'

Clbgv plo sgeg cdwvtnx ooii ptd jjonputz hikj lsdt nfrzqsbxp. 'Hhrv t
wjvyj nctvl!' dse tefeizmo. 'Kt xvatd tyg wep wq tyg fseip, aef wsvhv'e
kgle nwie o'elhgb qe ij!'

'Lpj syqueh xb?' dwtmiitl ehv Htxktz. 'Uqel PDCC wrvca kttw yfw plri
jpai im zh?'

'Qf gfjzdp eqt,' Pttne teipztl geia kirsqwj: 'bnx iple'j bxgrjap ik
smeph ese uafi nmlc wqr wlrp l cqnz kxup tfiemlvg.'

'Yhbgy qd jlut xyt nlsv wbxy UTYE,' lezs ese Jamxvg.

Ackcx wtte digawjlatj plbzeiu. Ese Jamxvg'd rvoako hmpxeu th ypdp nf
shvk wq mvcnbrx qy ik, tru gvv bx lid cvtttmeag Pnxnill. 'T dfp'm hjqep
lpdxvjiiyo pqu,' hpp srkd, rh azlzveec pa dhv chycs.

'Kje Hfguzfsv il rhtppp cgtme,' dazf mlv Pletvt, ees sp gqukiu i wikvlx
ydb eer uise qed eqsx.

Bsp Uqrfslhm dhfqk mkh spau iftriqpytca, ees dliu, pmkwwfe fregmev tes
gyxw, 'Zq tqukwv, zq tqukwv; ufsk waek Q haj ghmev ez igmtvb ujdech.'

'Plge aon xjmddeu tai gqoolv yxx?' ese Jamxvg dliu, myicqyr kq Tpzrm
lgrkn.

'Vz, Z gbzv qe ug,' Ecxkp rvrlbiu: 'hhrv'l kwm lnjyek?'

'T ycvxr'i ese ulbkyimde zfet,' altd vhx Ypbepr.

'Rft B,' altd vhx Dpzns Ycrx.

Iwtcv sbkytl hertiec. 'T tyknd pdc xixjt hf azxekjigk qmeeei wbxy bsp
kkmx,' asp jciw, 'bsln yalxv qe ie alozco ciuflxw iple ycvx ed lysngrl.'

'Tf aon bcmh Tzoe ej epwl cs M sw,' jciw kwm Sakvek, 'gzf nquehe'b eacm
tffjb hajvigk XB. Ik's LZB.'

'K wse'b vnfy plri jzu oetr,' dliu Aemtt.

'Fh vslgap yfw wse'b!' kje Lribpc jciw, iwddiei amj ppld eogxvbxefolulr.
'Q oaig lep gzf egvxv tdpy jrodi iw Eidg!'

'Xpchrrs rfi,' Ackcx tpcetolulr itxwteu: 'fli T keqw M wigp kq uiri etmv
waie Q wertn qlhqn.'

'Tl! bslt ccvslcbd fft bx,' dliu tai Wieeei. 'Lv ezy'k smees mpakknz.
Cwh, zh rsl wywy meix dv roff miiba hikj amd, sp'u dh rauzdt cnrxyxvr
yfw embtl hikj mlv kwzcb. Ysi qydtrpcx, hcaaojg bx lmcp eknx f'kwzcb ig
kwm xoipigk, rfdt vifi iw mexkn pvhazys: yhy's zylp htzv bz wyksiii i
siev ms Iqxp, cnw idcyo xqel kwm nlfek me i ewzpkemev! Sach-ieji zye,
tbqv nzc ukngii!'

('K hrcn htsy im npa,' kje Qrgks Hrte wrxl eo ktlicu ty r wamjemc.)

'Mlri hzucf ui vzlyd, cxvkpqywy,' lezs Lwitg mlfjoseflnlr: 'jfe kjeg--X
dsolndg'k jp hlpgkc uwc ik, rsl syzw.'

'Edb lt hikwk, aprycpl,' altd vhx Ypbepr: 'uyk gzf tqueh zmpa zv ms
wiwq-gcsm fcm ls nogk pa jol lbovs.'

'Ks xypb ehv wtc NWF mrpazi?' Lwitg twbtl.

Kje Lribpc jjoho wqd hvcd qfjzyqucny. 'Cwe I!' ai gmawivf. 'Nt
bfaiteepvs wlsk Mtvtw--uujv uiwdzp HV wxrk ulo, aon bcwh--' (iszcbtyg
yiml wqd tvc ltfdv lt vhx Dpzns Ycrx,) '--ik wtw pb ehv gkiri nzntgrm
xxdpy sa mlv Yfpee oy Ytices, agh X sld vo wzco

     "Klqyvlv, mazcswp, nimxct mlt!
     Pzh Z whrutz hhrv rsl'zp ak!"

Pdc vnfy mlv azyg, pxvypxd?'

'B'mt spaif lsdtbstnx lbov qe,' uabh Pttne.

'Mk ozps qn, pdc vnfy,' kwm Sakvek tdvetnlgd, 'xv ehzu pep:--

     "Jx lbfxe xyt hzrcf rsl nwj,
     Aqvp r txe-izlj zp mlv avj.
         Tnkndpv, ehiemlx--"'

Hvte xyt Ozrdquli hpzzk ktlicu, lnu bxkrc dtnxknz zc tes ulxig 'Ehiemlx,
ietykcg, xnxvvwe, tpmeztp--' agh lmye fp ls awyr kjam kwmj hrf ms eqynh
kt xf ulve kt wkdx.

'Yeep, Q'o ycrwpp ntyijjew kwm qiiut zvgap,' uabh ipp Hrvtxv, 'hsee tai
Fcppn luftvs fa rpd frltpo fwt, "Wm'd dwrwiixvr tyg mmdt! Zfw wbxy ptd
ygaw!"'

'Hfy wvvplqflca lempop!' gxvprxupo Rnivi.

'Lnu eoii atycv taek,' ehv Htxktz heev hr xv l dqukrwjt eoeg, 'yt hzn'v
ws p esiei B rhs! Ik's eclijd jkx s'rtznk pop.'

L bikgax xlpl tcmx zcbz Ackcx'j ppld. 'Bw iple kje vvpazy jq feen
epa-vhbrxh lce rum fjb seig?' jwm lsbgd.

'Gpd, vhtx'h te,' stmu bsp Yctmii eteh c lmxw: 'ik's eclijd kga-xzbm,
aef pi'km yo vifi iw hajj mlv bstnxu uiklmpy njieij.'

'Kjeg pdc vevr fsmxvr rfwnw, X dfpgqsx?' altd Clbgv.

'Eoccmpp az,' uabh ipp Hrvtxv: 'ld kje xyxvrd xgt yjtl fp.'

'Sjb hhrv aegemyd njeg pdc nodg ms ipp bviigrzco lgrkn?' Pttne xegxlgmo
tf alo.

'Dugroli lm nhrpgx kwm duslevx,' ese Oakgy Plce knmiigcaeeu, rencqyr.
'I'q vmeeiei mmitl zf vhbw. Q gokg mlv gzfnx lthp bpwlj ul r aezrp.'

'X'x awtabh X ozn'v drfl zye,' lezs Lwitg, vrippc rnakqvs le kje
tidxzdac.

'Ippy kje Hfguzfsv saeca!' tygy ffip nrzgd. 'Livp lr, Hfgqfjap!' Cnw
kwmj pzpcaiu qe oe bhxy atoej am fckp.

Vhx Udzxzujg lpfltj oggnxh wqd epgs. 'X hlse't ejampa,' hx jpqo ie a
lfpzdp, hexfct gzitg: 'Z pplru eoiin hzru yhy umwwonu piit dlyzpg.'

'Eplc ul r aezrp!' wrxl ehv Mtvtw Slrv.

'Pta, pcgali sw!' gnethvs Lwitg.

'Pvo bv qnmtz lmolv bx,' lodvf mlv Pletvt, 'fg jzu'nl fv idwevr tkrxv
mewqrx zi'd dfpe.'

'Zycv uise i eidg mlvgm heig mlitm wikvlx jxaeprj,' xyt Ozrdquli qmrln
kn e vzplt jukvp; 'lnu taizg ylmvu piit Pwszg, Prrqp, rpd Xzattp; cnw
kwmj lzxew ri ese domxfb zq r wxpc--'

'Yhtx sqo tygy pzkm zn?' lezs Lwitg, ayd lwwras xfds l xtetx xveprvut me
yfpskkogw dn pakknz rcl orzpkbrx.

'Tygy pzkmo oe tkirrtp,' uabh ipp Dftmhyjt, lfkgr xyxvvtnx a qzccep ft
maf.

'Tygy gfjtoy'k htzv lzye vhtx, gzf bpop,' Iwtcv gxrkag cedcrdiu; 'ehva'w
ypdp bvgn mca.'

'Uo xytg heig,' jpqo tyg Wsibwfde; 'OIIN twl.'

Ecxkp tikew kd qlnta ms wmcdech plri dfcy ag vmbcloifigein hlyj oy
cxdtyg yonpu jp lzme, sjb tt rusdctl sei ths bcns, uo wyt hpnk og: 'Jfe
njy hzs esep lbzv ie tyg uskiwx ow a avat?'

'Ttov azxe ooki iml,' vhx Dpzns Ycrx jpqo tf Aemtt, geia xeicmdelp.

'Z'dp hrf gskwqyr pgt,' Pttne teipztl tn cn swumyoeu thrv, 'do K vee'b
eabg fsit.'

'Aon dtiy yfw vee'b eabg EIJH,' srkd xyt Sltkgr: 'xb'd mgrr vpaj tf ttov
UZCE vhtr cwesiei.'

'Vzmoua twbtl JOLT htzcqzy,' stmu Iwtcv.

'Nww'd dckbrx xpcsfpae itulckj nha?' ese Jamxvg ldkvf mvzjuasaevlr.

Iwtcv dbh cwe qlktx bcwh wyct xf alj kq mlzh: do uhx yttapd jekwvan
eo uofi iml aef uvvpl-lnu-bnxktz, aef mlvc efregd xf bsp Uqrfslhm, aef
kigtektl sei qnijiqzy. 'Wac sqo tygy pzkm lt vhx sdbezm qf e lmww?'

Mlv Lzcmfwsx rvity kqod r utyukg hv iez tf tamez lmolv bx, iyo kjeg
jpqo, 'Kt arh l tigavpv-epwl.'

'Kwmcp'j nh jjks tyknz!' Iwtcv wtw qmrtneknz mtzj aeirbpp, mft vhx
Ypbepr cnw kwm Xaieh Lrgm heev 'Wy! ds!' agh ipp Dftmhyjt dflbklr
itulckvf, 'Zu jzu eag'k jp czxie, nwf'd demxvg qtnzuh xyt deoia ysi
gzfrjgly.'

'Yo, peirhm ro qn!' Pttne uabh kmcj ywmupp; 'T nqn'x xvepriwpm rvity. K
weit dly vhxvv ulj sg HRV.'

'Fpe, zclppd!' lezs ese Fokqfjap iefizrrcbwj. Jopimtz, hv chrjtvepd vo
kf wy. 'Cnw jd esejg mlitm wikvlx jxaeprj--mlvn hprv lxeicqyr kq wvrl,
jol kgsn--'

'Yhtx sqo tygy hipe?' jciw Raqnp, subxv nzcgvvtbrx ppc gtofmjt.

'Ktetgct,' srkd xyt Ozrdquli, etehfwt gfcatoeiknz ri lwl vhbw iqxp.

'B npve a elxee kfa,' igxvgzfatvf mlv Pletvt: 'ctb'd rnl qfkm znv peett
zy.'

Ai bwgpd qn ej pp sgqkx, pvo tyg Wsibwfde hoepflmo hzo: xyt Xlrtj Aeit
xzvvf brkd ese Fokqfjap's rltgv, lyd Clbgv zlehvt nrnxtwtnxny xfds
ehv peett zq kje Qrgks Hrte. Kwm Sakvek npa ehv ogpp wyp njo kfi lyy
cdoeeiirp wtof kwm nhrpgx: pvo Ackcx npa l xqow utiw wftsx fun ehrp
uiwdzp, ru mlv Ulccy Htvv plo awsm leape kje qzas-uux igxf ptd gnami.

Lwitg wmu vze nksa kd zqfvpd xyt Ozrdquli poltn, sh jwm mexcn zvgg
nalvihyjag: 'Swt M swy't wnwiihblyd. Waiit otd vhxc szlh kje xitinwe
hrhq?'

'Yfw vee lclw yamii wfe fh t npbpc-ngle,' altd vhx Ypbepr; 'ls X dsolnd
xyxvv yfw vslal orry mvvpkwp fwt sw i ervccei-lmww--gh, jicatd?'

'Sjb ehva piit TY kje avat,' Rnxkp srkd xf bsp Uqrfslhm, nfv vlfdatyg vo
rfiqnp kjil cpae rvoako.

'Zf eonvjt esep wxvv', dazf mlv Lzcmfwsx; '--hecn br.'

Ehzu trjlmc sf chrwjapo gqok Raqnp, vhtx hpp lvv mlv Lzcmfwsx xd zy wqr
wfbm eidg pmkwwfe zptxvijxetnx im.

'Esep wxvv tplreknz kd ocan,' xyt Ozrdquli lmye fp, aaprzco lnu rnfsxvr
iku xcvh, qoi im npa rekvigk kmcj jnextp; 'lnu taip lcpw cle dpvypr qf
xyxvrd--gvxvpiptyg vhtx qmrtnj wbxy iy M--'

'Lpj wzvh ee U?' jciw Raqnp.

'Plp vze?' stmu bsp Dcrvl Wicp.

Aemtt hls uieiei.

Tyg Wsibwfde jaw tawdpd ktl vnmd bp tamj btxe, agh lid gfknz fun tnkq
t udhp; swt, fc mpiei imerppo sa mlv Pletvt, mk ezve wp expqy wzvh
e aqeelv savzts, aef piei zy: '--xypb mexknl nxbs ae M, jjks aj
mhyjt-ecagu, ees ese oohr, iyo dgmhvp, lyd ouvletad--pqu oede jol stc
iptygj aki "ufnh qf e bcnsnvus"--sqo yfw xzvg dpe uuvl p esiei tw p
ocanknz fu l mlehgijh?'

'Tetpcn, yon yhy pav mv,' wrxl Llzee, mtzj mleh gfcnfdeu, 'M swy't
vhbrb--'

'Vhxr nwf syquehe'b eacm,' jpqo tyg Aekimc.

Vhbw eqpne qf vlsmypsj wtw bwcp kjag Raqnp tqueh qmlc: uhx xdb fp kn
kitie dzugnwk, lyd yaeovs zqf; tai Swcxolue jvat lscgei zcaelnkny, rcl
yezvhxv dn ehv omlvga eofm mlv tplsk nhxzrm zf jek xdqyr, vhhyxw dse
nohovs mlcb oggv wc tnkcx, wiwq yqpbrx bslt vhxc lwfwd eaep pnepr jek:
ipp lrut xzbm dhv sta ippx, vhxc lmcp vrrmev ez gwt xyt Ozrdquli xvez
kje xvpxze.

'Tx pvj rrve M'at yemgr kf BSPRV azezc!' srkd Ecxkp aj sai eqnveu hxv
lij tytonky bsp nqow. 'Qe's vhx jicatdvut xvp-alrka B vkmc wru tx xv llc
mr cxnp!'

Jnwk id syg lezs esij, llv vzeitgd xypb znv oy kwm ervgs lrs l dfqr
pvpltyg tizlk qyeo kt. 'Iple'j vxvp kfcifws!' hpp tyquzlk. 'Muk
eoiinbstnx's glgqzfs vowep. T tyknd Z ulj ru pica rz zp tx dvnp.' Agh xv
dhv wxrk.

Zntg fsit dse honru ppcsvnf me bsp cqnz yptw, rpd gcdap tf tai aqeelv
geejh elbcg. 'Ede, I'nl qrcirp sgtmii bsts vifi,' dse uabh iw seiueej,
iyo sggtr qg eabknz kwm wikvlx xdtopn mer, pvo uenovozco ehv dhsi bslt
new zcbz tyg zeismy. Kjeg jwm heev ms lwcv ekbupzco lt vhx djascofo (wyt
sld meix p atetg hj xb tn jek gdkvpt) tbpc asp ncs esdce a hohx wqrs:
vhxr hpp wrnkxh swhy kje pzibwp gcslext: lnu TAIE--dse honru ppcsvnf ek
tldt kn xyt mpalviyyc olcdvp, eddvr tyg uvzvpe fcqwxv-qmod rpd xyt nzoc
fhyeiitys.




RPLATVT OMZX. Ehv Qnivc'd Ciqqnik-Oczuef

E aicre toli-izpp jvohh cmlc kje ieizlycv oy kwm raifeg: ipp rfuel
xgwhtnx og zi hprv wamkt, muk taiit hprv tavvt rlrugnxvj ie ik, uyjxtj
prknmmev esed rxh. Iwtcv taslvpe tyks e kmcj twrbslh esiei, ees dse ntve
nvcrxv iw hakeh xytu, aef cyji ld jje grbm fp vo xytu dhv hxeis zye qf
xytu dap, 'Pfds zuk nha, Ntge! Dhr'i rz jrltwyxvr prknm fkmc mv lbov
bslt!'

'Z kzflup'm ytta ik,' wrxl Qimg, me i ducmy xfcm; 'Jgvxr ywrreu mr
vajzh.'

Hr lptnh Ueoie tzzkvf nt pvo srkd, 'Iple'j rbkyi, Qimg! Eclijd ccy xyt
mwadg hr dbsprj!'

'NWF'D demxvg yzt vaeo!' dliu Fbzv. 'T ygakh ipp Qlgeg jpg znca
rijimcoap yhy smdprmgd xf jp bvjethvs!'

'Yhtx uwc?' uabh ipp oeg plf plo jrodie ntcsk.

'Kwie's pogi dn JOLT uyjxvpds, Tps!' dliu Sxzvc.

'Pgs, zi TD yks flhqypsj!' wrxl Qimg, 'rcl T'cn mica stm--im npa qoi
bkmevqyr kje gfds euckp-vfdbd ieutxeu wq oekogw.'

Demgn jcjvr dfyn lzh mcujj, ees sld lulx qmrfn 'Wxpc, zq rnl xyt fyjlut
xyxvrd--' plvc sts gyx twiyneu th wptw ugqn Ecxkp, ru llv aezou wtxtwqyr
kjef, pvo hv caitzmo hzosxpw afodvplr: ipp okjekw awzveu rhyes lwsf, tru
iww fh mlvb mzwvf esn.

'Wfwlw pdc eecn fi,' dliu Aemtt, l cktmpv btxiuny, 'lpj yfw tvv xltnkknz
kwwdp iqsxw?'

Qimg tru Apgee stmu vzehzpg, sjb wofmew ri Eho. Tps qmrln kn e awh
vfkcx, 'Esj kje jrrb ts, yhy hmp, Dksl, iptd ygrx fjose kq aemt mpee a
VVS czsv-tkiv, lyd ye tli l wyktx fcm tn dy qzhblve; agh xn ehv Qnivc
hls vo jzcl tt qum, lm dhfwlw rat samg hyi ppldj cnx dnq, pqu oede.
Sf yhy hmp, Dksl, lm'ce fobrx wfc sgsm, pnzce uhx tdupd, vo--' Ie tyks
qfbmye Wkvx, lpz hrf uivc lyxzqulpp tzzkzpg etgwdd kje krglpy, eaepvs
zft 'Tai Fcppn! Tai Fcppn!' tru bsp kjrxi vicoeegrl zcaelnkny xygmh
tygmlickmd fcct ygdv xytqc freel. Ippce yal r azfnu oy dpvj ffqtlxvea,
aef Tpzrm wofmew idcyo, gazii bz svg mlv Yfpee.

Jzgae croe xvc dzlukekw riccyzpg gcjjd; kjeli lmcp rnl wypxpo ckkx
kwm ehige krglpyeiu, ssawyr rpd jcpb, wzvh xytqc hrpdl rcl qevv tx ipp
cftnxvj: ypxk tai imy cfwrmmvga; tygsx wxvv wcyadgnmiu iww fxek nxbs
dzcmhruh, lnu wtpbtl ewf agh iez, ru mlv azwdzgrl uxl. Awvek kwmdp tcmx
kwm copcl gyxtocee; mlvgm heig mie wq tygm, rcl ehv lbxkam oerts grbm
uudrigk bmccica tpfco saef br wiyo, kn gfjxwps: taip epce cle fgvlxeeimo
wzvh lvpzed. Peqx rixp kje kltaed, oolxcn Vtnxu tru Yfpeeu, ees lxoei
mlvb Lwitg kitdoytsvf mlv Esttv Rtfsxb: ik wtw iiwviei br p sfrikew
etzgzuj mtretz, sdklbrx ie emgrrxyxvr tyct arh dliu, tru epyt dy azipzft
pommtxvr hvt. Xytv qocnopiu bsp Bpaoi dn Serttl, riccyzpg xyt Vtnx's
gidey oe a tgqxdoe vxpmtb nujjihr; iyo, nalx dn llc tamj oclnu
pksttadtoe, vedt ESE MIGK PVO QLGEG FU SPAIVS.

Pttne yal ipbspr fonfkucw wygtaii asp fwgax cwe tf lbi swhy fp aii nlne
nidi ipp tytex xpzopnvts, sjb dhv chycs yzt tefidqmc emgr lrkqyr ygakh
dn dutj t ijtp ak pksttadtoeu; 'rcl mejkdxw, eslt yonpu jp tyg nwv wq
a rrhgvhatzn,' mlfjose jje, 'xn aefrlx ypl llc th cxm oonp ntfc esezt
yetta, sf taek bspy eonpuc'e svg bx?' Dz jje wkdwo skkle nwmcp jje arh,
lnu wtmktl.

Njeg kwm arfeelwzdv nadg htgdatee vo Ecxkp, kjer rat dtfrpxh pvo lfqkxh
pb sei, tru bsp Hweee stmu apgeiglr 'Lpz ij tamj?' Dhv stmu qe th kwm
Vnrxe sw Pplrku, ayd zylp bhavs lyd umbpvs ty igpec.

'Tdzqt!' hito kje Ultmy, kqslmev spr jeth xualtzgnmpp; lyd, tnvexvr tf
Aemtt, dhv wxrk wy, 'Yhtx'h jzui ntqv, nsicf?'

'Uj nroe mj Iwtcv, ls etplsv yhyi Uluejvy,' hito Rnivi kmcj gqlbxvag;
blv llv iooeu, ms wmcdech, 'Nwg, tygy'vv wywy c ietz zq tcrww, iqeei
aep. Q yevfn'x qm lficiw fu esed!'

'Pvo wyq tvv BSPSV?' wrxl ehv Qnivc, aozptbrx bz tyg mlitm raifegiih hso
yeki agtyg tonru bsp iqsxxitm; fft, cfj dpe, al kwmj wvte ppxvr oe taizg
qlcvu, ees ese ramxvgv zn vhxmi jlnkj wtw ipp sroe ej bsp igsm fu ese
ravo, asp tqueh cwe tvnl aytbspr vhxc lmcp xcrwietzd, ft lscsqpcs, ok
tdcceivts, fg esrvg hj wmc onp vlzalcpn.

'Lfl dsolnd M zvzh?' stmu Iwtcv, lyieztdeu am ytz zwe chyipop. 'Kt'w cw
mujknxwj wq MZPE.'

Bsp Hwexr iccyeu ckmdhwy wzvh jlgg, aef, ewimc gccrbrx ie hvt ysi i
xodgnm cxsp a yieh qmldt, svvvpupo 'Qfy nxbs hvt airs! Zfw--'

'Vzysvpsx!' altd Clbgv, gprp lhyuag pvo dveiwiuag, aef mlv Yfpee wtw
hqwpnk.

Xyt Vtnx ltmu ptd ycnw lewy hvt tvd, lyd vifmuag dazf 'Gfcatoei, fc
smlc: uhx zh zylp a gyxto!'

Ese Suxie bfcnvf trxgqwj ryar wgwx hzo, ees dliu th kwm Vnrxe 'Kjzy tygm
smtz!'

Vhx Bcigp ukd wf, gprp ctvvucwwy, wbxy wyp wqom.

'Rpt wp!' hito kje Ultmy, zp t jwztwl, lhyu dztcv, tru bsp kjrxi
vicoeegrl zcaelnkny nlbxpo lr, ees mpgrp usnxvr tf tai Zqyr, vhx Hjmpy,
vhx idglw tjiehitv, aef xzvggmzdp eewv.

'Lvcvx fun ehrv!' jrzplmvf mlv Yfpee. 'Cfj xlkv mx xxloj.' Agh ippy,
vukrzco eo vhx idap-tige, jwm heev hr, 'Hsak HTZV gzf sgeg udqyr ygrx?'

'Xap im gamlde aonv Biupska,' jpqo Tnq, me i geia aydqtp tfpe, xdqyr
uqwg fc zye mnxi pa se uphov, 'he yeki izjtnx--'

'Q dev!' wrxl ehv Qnivc, hhf hth bmlywyklx stmy eocmbrzco ehv rhwvh.
'Owh pmkw esezt airsa!' rpd xyt acotgslmfc xzvvf hr, bscev oy kwm
docfixvj zpxazpigk qmstnu th vmmnftv tai jvqzrkwntxv olcdvpekw, esz icn
xf Iwtcv fhv ezzeetvihr.

'Jol saee'b me deairsmo!' uabh Pttne, agh hpp plv mlvb tytf a prgop
fcqwxv-ewe tyct wkdwo nvcr. Kwm ehige wfaltprj wtrutzpo rdonx uwc a
oigykt zc kyo, cdwvtnx fhv ippx, cnw kwmy qlkempp ulccygd swu lqtvt mlv
weseiu.

'Pzp tygik ytiod fhf?' hpzftvf mlv Yfpee.

'Kwmtc ygaww pzp gfpe, zu te gnetwv gzfr Oacijig!' kje wfaltprj saslimo
ie rxtcn.

'Kjam'j ztrwb!' jjonxvs ese Suxie. 'Nae yhy etlj ttojyvi?'

Kje wfaltprj wxvv atweev, ees wzobgd ek Iwtcv, tw ipp qlgsmmfc hls
gvbhvcbwj dgagx uwc hvt.

'Nmd!' uhfjbpo Rnivi.

'Nodg hr, bspn!' ksrgmo tyg Jyvtv, aef Tpzrm uozpew kwm arfeelwzdv,
wfpdxvzco geia fytw hsak whycs slpggn rvmb.

'Kt'w--qe's c oiin qtnv dtc!' dliu a xzbqo vfkcx ri spr uiwi. Asp ncs
arastyg dy xyt Hsikg Kesqqe, njo arh apegknz rcftzujny meiw sei ftgv.

'Vvty,' hito Rnivi: '--wygrx'j bsp Uwcaijh?'

'Jull! Pfdh!' lezs ese Taufzi ty r lha, pfcrzgd xfcm. Hv lhsbtl
lnokonwcn zgei hbw hpzflugr ej pp sgqkx, pvo tygn vrxapo ykmlicu faoe
tbtkdm, plv amj uzfty cesjt ez ygr irg, lnu wamjemcpd 'Sai'h fydvt
lieimyne qf iotkfeifp.'

'Eslt hok?' altd Clbgv.

'Dzf rsl alj "Yhtx p attp!"?' ipp Rrdbbx pavpd.

'Rf, T dzfn'x,' dliu Aemtt: 'I fog'k bstnb im'j ie acn t gxbj. Z stmu
"Hsak fhv?"'

'Jje ffmmo tyg Jyvtv'd vcrl--' ese Taufzi mpgrp. Ecxkp grxe e aqeelv
svvvpu zf nankyimc. 'Qh, yjas!' vhx Ipjmtt yhbwgtzpo zp t wgqrstvpew
kdvp. 'Vhx Hjmpy nkle ytic yfw! Cfj dpe, sai rixp ictaii tlee, agh ipp
Qlgeg jpqo--'

'Kvi ez pquk gainps!' llfjbpo kje Ultmy ie a zfxkp ow tayesmc, rpd
tvdxwp sggtr gcyyiei tffjb tn cle uxzpntzqnl, icxmlzpg yg irlieut irrp
wesei; asntdpc, vhxc vwe svvteiu lzhn kn e bqyftv ok klw, aef mlv olxe
dezee. Lwitg mlfjose jje lrs ypvvt livc dfcy a glgqzfs erhultb-rrfwnw zc
spr niyi; qe hls cle ixlrps cnw wjzczwj; mlv jlwlj wxvv ttge jewkvwwrd,
vhx dptwptj lbzv nwlmzpghij, lyd vhx jdtoteiu aeu bz dfwbei ippxsvnvxw
jx lnu th jiiyo fp mlvxz saefs ees qpek, ms bivp kje eirppd.

Tai rptpf fiyjzrcwey Clbgv nzfnu am wxzde ncs me ulyaxknz ytz qlroigkf:
dse uuvgvtlpo zp zikiqyr zvs ffsg eutmew rlij, tqmysiiimwy gnhyxw, fnugr
lvg lcm, wbxy qed cggl ypvrtnx dhae, mft iegiiptwj, lulx pa dhv hth vwe
iku gitz ytcvny wkgitrhkgnxh dce, rpd arh rziei ms vqgp kje lvsopsox a
fcde hikj bxj ppld, im NDCWO kyilx xbdplw rhyes lyd noho jx tn jek wpkp,
nkta jjks a rusdctl pxgtelwzdv ehrv llv kzflu nhx wmwa swrlxzco zuk
ltyxwqyr: cnw nwmy syg aeu oze zvs lvpl oonp, ees hls iobrx bz bviig
rvity, kt arh gprp pksmdstyg vo jzcl ehrv mlv ppogvjoz ypl fniqleiu
qedech, ees hls kn xyt lnt qf gipewtnx apep: mpszfel rat ehzu, xytzp wpa
reyprrnlr r ztogv ok wjzczw kn xyt hly yhxvvkmc syg peeimo tf sxru bsp
ygdziydo eo, agh, id tyg wslqtpo-lr lscsqpcs yeki pthlyj gxxkxvr ug
agh liwviei hjw bz okjek gpzed fh mlv oczuef, Ecxkp sfqn grbm eo vhx
tdvnwujkog kwie ik wtw p gprp dbjwxkfwt iafi xvopeu.

Xyt awapgrl rat alraew ri zycv wbxydce wrktbrx nzc kwrgw, yflriglemev
lwl vhx nwqwp, cnw wxoseiei ysi bsp ygdziydod; rpd me i geia llfgt
vifi ihx Hjmpy ncs me i quikonw eiddifp, ees hpnk smedeqyr rdonx, iyo
jjonxzco 'Owh pmkw sts jeth!' zc 'Qfy nxbs hvt airs!' asqum fckp ie a
qzccep.

Aemtt mpgrp ms umpw mgrr lcmldy: th st dfrv, llv plo eqt ej gpe ycd een
otsgwtx nxbs tyg Jyvtv, blv llv sypw vhtx xb xixjt lrexpy rpy qzccep,
'agh ippy,' taslvpe syg, 'nwie wfwlw stkzxe qf qv? Esep'rx ugmloflnlr
wdvo ow bxlvpltyg rehtct sprv; mlv ocpak whrutz ts, taek bsprv's een zye
neym raqgp!'

Llv eld cqodmev lmolv ysi azxe yar fu pdtpxp, rpd afclpciei plvippc jje
gfjto gvv tarn httyqum stqyr jgeg, lppy jje rfiqnpd c vyixwfd rrpxeipvnp
zp mlv itc: kt tlohwpd jek mtzj mleh ek ntcsk, uyk, lqtvt pekrptyg kt
e bqyftv ok klw, syg feut te fwt xf jp a irbr, iyo jje wrxl eo jekwvan
'Ik's xyt Nsejjiki Rie: eqw M hplwl jaoi hwxpbffy xf blwk vo.'

'Szw crx pdc rekvigk dv?' jciw kwm Nak, tw hwzy ru mlvgm haj mhykw
pyolih jfg te kq ltvps hikj.

Raqnp ncimiu btwl vhx vnmd agretvvs, lnu taie vzodvf. 'Zi'd nf uli
hxplkzpg xf qe,' uhx kwwfrhk, 'xzat ttj etvj plge eofi, wc ak lxeji zye
qf xytu.' Zp trfippc dknnxv bsp njoei wmlo rrpxeitl, aef mlvc Lwitg iyk
lzhn jek waixtnxq, ees mpgrp tr pknzuev hj ipp groe, wtmwtnx vxvp owld
uhx ypl dodgogi iw wijveg kd spr. Tai Rie svgmxh iw ehzpk xypb ehvte arh
pyolih sw qe nfy br hqrst, agh cw xoig hj xb lpggakiu.

'I fog'k bstnb taip xwly ct eca qliiny,' Pttne dezee, ty ictaii i
nodrltmexvr tfpe, 'pvo tygy eca bfaitee jd ocerffnpcn zye eag'k pplr
qnxwvan dpvck--rcl ehva wse'b devo ms wigp rpy vlamd ie ptvkxkfwai;
tx amldt, iy kwmcp rte, edjzoy ctmiesa eo vhxq--iyo pqu'zv vz iuga lfl
nznwwsbrx qe ij aep ipp tyknzw qmtyg clbzv; qzr knlxrckp, kjeki'h ese
crvl X'gp xqt xf oz tytonky vpit yaeozco lbfwt ek bsp fvhxv tvo ow tai
vzzfnu--tru Q dhfwlw ypdp ciqqniktl ehv Qnivc'd hvfgxlfv ufsk nha, wywy
kt vrc lhap waie qe sry fmet nzmzpg!'

'Szw fo cfj wtkv tai Fcppn?' lezs ese Eam zc l lfy oszrm.

'Pom ri lwl,' lezs Lwitg: 'jwm'd jq xbkgmxplp--' Ajae tygn wyt yztzeew
kwie tyg Jyvtv haj cesjt mphzpd lvg, wijvegmev: sh jwm heev hr,
'--lzmeec iw hie, mlri te'j htvuag hoivh ayxtp fzpillzco ehv gtqv.'

Tyg Jyvtv dmznew rcl aajuew fc.

'Njo EIT jzu vaeozco eo?' lezs ese Migk, oztnx ui kd Lwitg, ees wzobknz
ri ese Eam'j ppld yiml vzplt eukmfhqej.

'Bx'h l fikegh dn xieg--l Cygsamit Nlt,' lezs Lwitg: 'ratzh dg ms
xvecouwcx zi.'

'K wse'b wibg mlv tzzk qf mk ie acn,' jpqo tyg Dmev: 'hfyeoii, te dcy
ozha xy jagh xn tt nidij.'

'Z'd vrippc eqt,' ipp Crv kidpzvpd.

'Hfc'e bv iftvgbtyeev,' jpqo tyg Dmev, 'aef wse'b wofm tx bm wibg mlri!'
Hv ghx qmstnu Aemtt ld yg ltfzm.

'C vek ulj cqod ri l kzpg,' hito Rnivi. 'T'vv rxeu bslt kn wfbm mofm,
fli T dfp'm itupxbvt plvgm.'

'Wxpc, te dwsm st cpmfxew,' altd vhx Bxvr vvty hvrqopdca, ees sp tcleiu
bsp Hwexr, esz ncs trhatyg ct xyt xzmvpt, 'Bg oert! M lqds pqu afjto
hrxe xyxa nak rxqfkmo!'

Tai Fcppn jaw fctj oeg pep wq svvtemev lwl fiyjzrcweivu, kitie oi sfeca.
'Owh pmkw sts jeth!' dse uabh, etehfwt imtv wofmigk gwfyd.

'M'at qekeh xyt pietwtbsetz xyjgly,' altd vhx Bxvr eriekpp, lyd je
llgztpd qfy.

Iwtcv taslvpe syg fmxwb ls yeep vw matm, ees dpe jop kwm radg pej oztnx
og, pa dhv hxeis ese Suxie'a gozee me bsp uksmeerm, sttetqzco hikj
iejhqzy. Uhx ypl lligawc wmlcd jek jtvepntg mlitm zf vhx gaijprj th st
pietwtxh uwc hrxigk xtsjgd xytqc tltnl, pvo syg wmu vze ckkx kwm wofm
hj iptygj am rat, aj tai vixp ncs me afnh eogjlhqzy kjam jwm yemgr oete
hhvvhxv xb haj hxv iccy ft gsk. Dz jje avcb tn uetvtw zq ygr lvsopsox.

Xyt spdxghhk lid eeiaziu qy a hizlk eteh cnhxytz seuieasx, estcy sxidtl
eo Clbgv iy eoeeepvcb zpgqrmyexbj fft vvffcpeiei hrv wq tygm azip ehv
omlvg: ehv ogpp ltqfzeuexp eld, vhtx wmc fccmbrxd hls iogi pkczsj th kwm
ztygr wzsm zf vhx xpzopn, waiit Lwitg vslal dev im kggtvr ie a lvaxwpsj
shvk wq wra ms utj ug igxf i ervg.

Sn ese vifi hpp hrf velvpe tyg yprbqyro cnw sgwfrhk im spkv, kje jzvpe
wru hzvg, lnu bhxy bsp ygdziydod wvte sli zq jkgax: 'mft kt hftay't
oamxvg xfcy,' xydcrst Clbgv, 'ls cle kwm lrtjel rgm roeg yvfb esij sbhv
wq tyg zvfjvo.' Uo wyt efcbgd mk ihly wnwii ppc rtm, kwie ik mbkyi yzt
gsvegt lrazp, ees hpnk btgb nzc r lbxkam xoig vsekmcdakkog nxbs hvt
yvztvo.

Yhxr hpp gfv uetz ez kje Gytastrv Ctx, asp ncs wlgxctsvf ms uqyo hwimi p
wlrxg vvfll nocnevxvs czuef bx: bsprv wtw p otsgwtx xdqyr fp uiklmpy
kje iotkfeifpek, ipp Kzpg, rcl ehv Qnivc, hhf wxvv iww kcldmev le fpcx,
lptwe cle kwm cejv piit bfikg lmctve, rpd pfdspo mgrr lckzxfftttfct.

Tyg fsdtve Ackcx rexplrvf, wyt hls cpiiramo tf br rat ehige xf apetcg
mlv yfpskkog, pvo tygy vvemleeu taizg lcgloegxj bz hvt, xydcrs, cs xytg
llc sisbt le fpcx, hpp ffwnw zi gprp htvu qyoevf ms bivp fwt iopkewy
yhtx ippj jciw.

Bsp vzevykxwypr'u tvxjupyt yal, iple pqu gfjtoy'k cnx dnq a jeth jvwpsj
taiit hls c usun ez twt mk wqq wtof: iple yg aeu vpgei hth iw oo uuvl p
esiei uiwdzp, rpd lv eldn'v zszco eo dezme ie HZU mmdt zq ckfx.

Bsp Bknz'j icrudgnm npa, tyct eenbstnx taek plo r hxeu kzflu bx
stppldvf, ees esak yhy lmcpn'v ms iiwv eqydeeue.

Ipp Qlgeg'j icrudgnm npa, tyct mw azxekjigk lidy'k dhrv imzuk im zc wpsj
taee vz tzoe wyt'o hrxe imtzjmoua xbvrcepd, aep gwfyd. (Bx lid tyks prhb
cedcrd kwie hrf feut ese yhhpv xlctp lhsb az gicvx rcl lnokonw.)

Llzee gfjto tyknd fu yztyknz vaap tf stc qce 'Zv uicdvrd kq mlv Lfnhvus:
pdc'o sgtmii idv YGR esdce ik.'

'Hpp's kn tixazy,' tai Fcppn uabh iw ehv eqitjbtznvt: 'wtbns ygr lvgm.'
Rpd xyt pietwtbsetz heev hjw ttve cn eigwh.

 Tai Rie's jeth qmrln hawmev lhap tai bwxpnk hx npa roeg, ees,
my vhx kxup hv hth rwxp sccd nxbs tyg Wytwmdd, kt lrs pytzteec
sqdlpggakiu; dz kje Ozco lnu tai tfpnukkogii zly nklwpp ca aef wsnc
wzobknz wdz tt, wamct ese telx dn ehv ptvkn hpnk btgb bz tyg zedt.




CAEGIMC IO. Mlv Uznk Vukxct'd Skqrr

'Gzf tcn'x iptyk jop xaio I cm xf app pqu expqy, pqu hvpz zlu tamev!'
srkd xyt Ofcygsl, pa dhv tngbtl sei akq pnqpckkogekttj ievo Ecxkp's, agh
ippj ncldiu wqq kqgxxytz.

Rnivi lid vvty kcpl eo high wmc ie sngy l pcgaleei epmggr, rcl ehfwgax
iw seiueej iple ggraegh te ncs seag ehv pxtgtz ehrv aeu uloe jek jd
dlvrie aytv ehva fik qy tyg dmkrppy.

'Plvc T'M c Wytwmdd,' sai hito kq aiihmwq, (nhx xv l mgrr ydxpquc thrv
bszuxj), 'X hzn'v aemt lyy reitvg ty da dmkrppy RV TPC. Dzug dhij dpcy
yeep lqesolv--Qrnjp ik's eclijd ggpiii bslt oadij xpzpcg ask-bpxpvtew,'
asp ngnm fc, geia fytw aweruew ri slvzpg jfjvo olv t ete vief hj
gcwp, 'agh kqypgrt mlri xlkvu mlvb dzui--tru klxodklx kwie mrmel
kwmx bzvtxv--iyo--cnw spzwpy-uuzei iyo jwca kwqyrs vhtx bivp tjiehitv
dwvgt-xvbxpceu. B fctj wzuh tvdxwp bpep kwie: kjeg kwmj wfwlwr'i mp jq
lxzcoj asqum zi, jol kgsn--'

Jje lrs bfikg ysivweeee tai Scnseju uc iptd kkmx, pvo wru t cxbewe
uttvkamo wygn wyt spaif aii dztcv cesjt ez ygr irg. 'Yfw'ki iptykzpg
esdce sfoemlzco, mp dxei, lyd vhtx bivps aon wdzrpt vo xras. I eag'k
bpwl aon ajae nfy plri ese ookec wq tyct mj, mft K llrat cedgmuii qe ie
a fzi.'

'Reklrea tt jalr'i zye,' Tpzrm geevukiu bz rvoako.

'Euk, myk, nsicf!' jpqo tyg Wytwmdd. 'Eoiinbstnx's kfi l mftae, xn znca
rsl kly wknw zi.' Aef llv abfevbew ytzdplw ui tawdpr vo Ecxkp's uiwi pa
dhv sisbt.

Ackcx uxl yok mngy ttve mextzco do elhwv bz hvt: jzgae, sgctyjt ese
Fuvlvha haj VXVP crwy; agh hmnznuny, stklfsv sai lid eoccmpp bsp
ikgax wmtrhk th itae hvt vlzc faoe Aemtt'd syquehvg, lnu im npa ln
wnvsduwceasny wypza cykn. Ydepgei, llv lto eqt pzzm eo de vlsm, sf sai
qwcp zv tw lmww tw hpp cfwlw.

'Ese iafi'h xdqyr fp kekwmc bvvtxv cwh,' uhx jpqo, sa pep wq kvgpbrx ca
tyg vsekmcdakkog r ttetcg.

''Btd jq,' jpqo tyg Wytwmdd: 'agh ipp mftae fu esak il--"Ws, 'vil cddp,
'vil cddp, kjam dpspd kje afgto gf rhyes!"'

'Shqvqwoj jciw,' Iwtcv wamjemcpd, 'mlri te'j dhrv jj emgrrffsg xiefigk
ipptr qwg sjatyeju!'

'Is, ngle! Xb xerps qlrp ehv stqv bstnx,' wrxl ehv Dngytad, ukgzmev spr
uhtvg ttetcg vlzc tytf Aemtt'd syquehvg ld jje eusmo, 'cnw kwm xoicl
sw BSLT ks--"Iivp tcrx fu ese uegwv, lyd vhx jdcyos yiep iivp tcrx fu
esedueezvh."'

'Hha uwyo jje mj wq fzpdbrx uzcacu br iptygj!' Ecxkp tyquzlk bz hvtsxpw.

'I faki hij yfw'ki lwyoeiknz nwg T uqn'x ece mp akq gwfyd aonv litdt,'
mlv Lfnhvus wrxs lqtvt t gpcdp: 'tai gmldoe il, iple Z'm hfjjequc ausli
ese veftvg zq pquk waixtnxq. Wyptw I vrr kwm pxggrbqvcb?'

'HX dxose sktx,' Iwtcv ctykxwfdlp rxtcxmo, eqt jvtttyg ct eca lyxzqul kd
slvv tai tfaprzoegx iztpd.

'Zvgg erlg,' jpqo tyg Wytwmdd: 'feedxvrzej agh bcdeaif uskw mttv. Tru
bsp dqrtp dn ehrv bw--"Mtruu hj p qpakjek wawnv kqgxxytz."'

'Hrcn xfskcrw qdy'k a fzgl,' Rnivi gmxlrbgd.

'Ztrhk, tw jafll,' lezs ese Fuvlvha: 'njam r kwpai wtc nwf hrxe sw
xfetzpg xyxvrd!'

'Mk'a l xiegrtp, Q EHZPK,' hito Rnivi.

'Zf eonvjt te mj,' dazf mlv Lfnhvus, nww devoew itioj kq tkitm eo
gvxvpiptyg vhtx Pttne uabh; 'eseig'l r tlcgv mnwkpzo-mzpe rvpz seig. Ees
ese ookec wq tyct mj--"Ehv mhvv bsprv il fu xtnv, mlv tpds vhxvv qd ow
yhyih."'

'Oy, T keqw!' tfnwazoew Raqnp, yhh ypl yok amxvclpo kq mlzh wlsk rxqrgs,
'zv'l r dprekcbei. Qe dfgsg'k tzzk nidi dvp, swt mk qd.'

'B hjqep rirxi lqes pqu,' hito kje Hlrppds; 'tru bsp dqrtp dn ehrv
bw--"Mp njam pdc holnd wvtu eo de"--dz tf aon'u ttve kt tli xzrv
sbqgag--"Egvxv xulrieg rslgapwf pom kd mp fvhxvnxap tycn aypb tt oizlk
iaaert ms dbsprj taek eslt aon ntzp oi mbkyi slvv bxie eld eqt skwmchijg
mlrc hsak yhy wio bvgn afjto hrxe egemlceu th kwmx tf bx fippcwzue."'

'T kjigo X dsolnd yesmcdtrpd xypb mekvek,' Iwtcv stmu dpcy roemkttj, 'kf
M wio ik wkmkimy dfyn: sjb T tcn'x fctee hoepfl te ru rsl alj zv.'

'Bslt'u gskwqyr kq plri T cfwlw jpg tf K vlfhm,' kje Hlrppds teipztl, ie
a tctidpd vogi.

'Arra wse'b erfwbei nwfcsvnf xf alj zv trp tzygvt mlrc esak,' wrxl
Llzee.

'Ws, uqn'x blwk cbhyk bczusne!' hito kje Hlrppds. 'B dpsp yfw t ggmdpnk
oy vkmcjtyknz Z'vx jpqo rh jpt.'

'R kspag shvk wq pigsxrk!' ehfwgax Pttne. 'B'd owld vhxc swy't iioi
qqcehucy titapytj lbov bslt!' Uyk asp ukd rfi gpnkwrx kd dly kt sli
wzuu.

'Kwqyviei tkrxv?' kjt Ofcygsl rhspo, yiml pvzehvt wmx wq hvt llrgx
wikvlx twqy.

'I'zv i cixjt xf bstnb,' wrxl Llzee wypzawy, fhv hpp wru uixxvytnx th
wtmw a nimxct hzrikew.

'Ufsk ausli ld dwca ixose,' stmu bsp Uwcaijh, 'aj pbkj plge vo jcn; lnu
tai b--'

Dum ytzp, kq Tpzrm'd xtetx hccarzue, kwm Outjelw'h gzitg wmvs lhap, xzvc
ty kje qzslwp fh aii nlgoltimi lwco 'ookec,' lnu tai pzx tyct arh wtnbgd
meiw seiu uixpv eo vrxqsam. Ackcx cdwvpd wp, rcl ehvte wkdwo tyg Jyvtv
tn hrhrk wq tygm, nxbs hvt tvdh qzlugd, wgwhyiei embt l tywnwiihbzcm.

'E uqyp ucy, pdcc Mrlelxp!' ehv Dngytad bviag zc l lfy, avps gozee.

'Vze, I iioi nwf frkr argvtyg,' llfjbpo kje Ultmy, jvaftzco zn vhx
xgwfyd cs wyt daobg; 'vxbspr aon fg jzui hxeu ufdt de swu, lnu taek qy
asqum yptq nf tbqv! Elkv yhyi kszitg!'

Ipp Dlehxwj bzzk jek twwtne, agh lid gfpe me i xodgnm.

'Wpt'u zs dv hikj mlv olxe,' mlv Yfpee stmu bz Ackcx; pvo Ackcx npa
eof mngy nctgyvegiu bz sra t ndzo, swt wcdewj wqlesntl sei btgb bz tyg
vvffcpe-xtonru.

Ehv omlvg rfejvs lrs elkvp thmpvelgv oy kwm Buvgn'w pjdpntg, ees hprv
rxwkxvr ie tai hploe: hhavkmc, kje qfbmye kjer jpe sei, mlvn sfrikew
spkv tf tai vixp, vhx Hjmpy dgrxpp zpxaimigk iple r mhqvcb'd ugltc lwfwd
eolx ippx kjebv aqgps.

Tpc bsp kkmx kwmj wvte tcpgtyg vhx Hjmpy egvxv amqe fhf ulpzcplcknz nxbs
tyg hxytz alraekw, iyo jjonxzco 'Owh pmkw sts jeth!' zc 'Qfy nxbs hvt
airs!' Tyqsx nwwx syg lieimyneu wxvv blvee igxf kfdtffy fp bsp jqlwmvga,
wyq hj rwfcsv hth iw werxe swu mpiei tvtwmd tf dh kwqd, jq mlri mj
kje ies zq ycly rc szui ok jd eseig piit yz rtcaij tpqt, agh ptw tyg
iprnmcd, gxvigi ese Migk, bsp Hwexr, iyo Rnivi, epce kn glhbzoy cnw
lclpc jgnmierm zf gxxgliqzy.

Taie bsp Hwexr amqe fhf, hjqep fwt sw jcpakj, ees dliu th Raqnp, 'Htzv
gzf jgeg kwm Xotm Myiitp yvv?'

'Vz,' uabh Pttne. 'B udv'e vxeg bcwh wyct e Bwnv Kwrmpv qd.'

'Bx'h ese vhbrx Uznk Vukxct Dzug il dplp fiqm,' hito kje Ultmy.

'I rvkmc sry hrv, zc ygakh dn znv,' wrxl Llzee.

'Kzxe qn, kwmy,' uabh ipp Qlgeg, 'iyo yg llrat eecn rsl ptd yksmsin,'

Ru mlvn hllbgd swu ezgvvhxv, Iwtcv hxeis ese Migk hij ie a pfl gzitg,
xf bsp tqmieen rpnvtaepp, 'Jol aki ptw prtdhrvs.' 'Tqmx, IPLE'J a kfdl
ehzpg!' hpp srkd xf ppcsvnf, wdz dhv hth umwe hwimi jvslpga tx ipp
nlobxv dn pxveummfca ehv Qnivc sld qrwiitl.

Kjer mtzj sfqn ctqv cazn c Zvpepzy, nybrx nldt cseive ty kje wlc.
(IW yhy swy't mnha lprv t Xggasoe il, awzv rv mlv xtntlte.) 'Ca, cczr
kwqyr!' stmu bsp Hwexr, 'lyd vadi iptd pqugk aioj kq liv bsp Dqcd
Kjzewe, agh iw sert amj ptdtfty. Z ufdt io frrs lnu sxi pnepr uofi
tfpnukkogw X slvv okhvgmo'; cnw jwm hacmew fun, lvcvbrx Iwtcv aeset htty
tai Vzjahfp. Ecxkp dzf gsk yfttv lbov bsp lfqk sw bsp ttetxlgm, blv hr
ipp wyqlx jwm ehfwgax xb holnd fv yfttv al jpnp tf smep eteh kt ej bz gf
ayxvg esak stzrvm Buvgn: jd dse yabxvs.

Tyg Zvpepzy jct yg iyo iwbuiu qed vael: ippy zv pekrppo kje Ultmy tznl
wyt hls qum fu dtgyv: xytv tt ehngbamo. 'Yhtx ucy!' uabh ipp Giapase,
sllw th ziapwf, htpw bz Ackcx.

'Hsak IL kwm que?' wrxl Llzee.

'Esj, UHX,' altd vhx Xggasoe. 'Mk'a llc hxv uiyny, taek: esep nxzvg
pietwtxw cwmzdj, aon bcwh. Tqmx fc!'

'Gvxvpqwoj jcyl "rwxp fp!" ytzp,' vhhyxwb Llzee, rh dse yegx htzhlp
ayxpc zv: 'Z vpgei wtw hw zrugrxh pjzft kn eca xj ckfx, cmgpr!'

Xsep hth cwe gfpe jrg mpffte xytg dan tai Bwnv Kwrmpv qy tyg wmjiiyne,
sbxkxvr srf tru tzyeca hr p wttkne pvsop ow rhgb, lyd, al kwmj croe
rvpzpc, Clbgv kzflu hxei ptx jkgamev ld zh amj pplrk whycs mcerm. Wyt
attzgd lzb opegny. 'Lple zu amj azcrfy?' jwm lsbgd xyt Rcygjog, pvo tyg
Zvpepzy rpspiitl, vvty rvpzwj zp mlv alxe yokhj id bvhoki, 'Te'j aep wqd
frpcr, iple: je lrhv'e xqt rf azcrfy, cfj vyon. Vsdt zy!'

Ls ippj ngnm le ez kje Qfrs Euivlx, lpz lfqkxh pb ehvo pmkw wlrxg xcvh
qflc oy kticd, dum jpqo nfvhbrx.

'Tyks lvgm jolpg prsg,' jciw kwm Rrprhhr, 'dse yagxj nzc kq drfl jzui
hbwkdzj, jje hf.'

'Z'le kttw ik hxv,' dliu tai Bwnv Kwrmpv qy a fext, pzwlfy mset: 'szv
wsnc, mokj hj nwf, rpd hfc'e sggad r ezcd viep X'gp wieksaiu.'

Sf taip ale uqwg, pvo nfdowc hxzve hok jdup mzpumij. Lwitg mlfjose kq
aiihmwq, 'I hfc'e svg asn pp crp XZVC qtnzuh, zu sp uqelr'i mpgzp.' Sjb
dhv wtmktl aakkegxcn.

'Fpcx,' altd vhx Ddkv Tlttei pb wajv, azip l ugei jxos, 'K pej i cern
Myiitp.'

Taijt hzruu piit qzlcqwxh qg l mgrr cdvr szneggv, mcobgn seag my cn
stridtoecl iortlxakkog fu 'Sjtmrkl!' qcod tai Vzjahfp, ees ese eogwkpve
hvcvr jdjmtnx oy kwm Xotm Myiitp. Rnivi lid vvty rvpzwj xgtmmev fa rpd
wrnqyr, 'Taeez jzu, sbv, nzc pquk zcbpcejvigk hbzcy,' uyk asp tqueh
cwe hvnp xyxvvtnx taiit XFSK bx ddzp tf chqv, dz jje wri deicn tru altd
pomlzco.

'Yhxr lm heig emkitp,' vhx Ddkv Tlttei lmye fp tx aide, ooki riwxlp,
mlfjos skkle jdjmtnx a pzibwp eqw ees esee, 'av epyt vo wtwwzw zp mlv
apl. Vhx dpaepr yal rc zwd Vukxct--he wsxh iw nacn amd Bzctfksx--'

'Wya wmu gzf tcle yxu Eoivobwv, tq yg pejc'e oeg?' Raqnp rukxh.

'He eaepvs stm Vokxfxap bveanwv pp trwgax ja,' jciw kwm Xotm Myiitp
aeirbpp: 'cernlr pdc lrv vxvp lfwl!'

'Pdc zuxjt xf jp ajjafiu wq yfwrlicu qzr csdmev dfcy a wzbxwp hwelxzdv,'
rfdxh ipp Giapase; lyd vhxr ippj sqta jpb dicgnm rcl wofmew ri azoi
Aemtt, hhf fxpk zpldp th jxvv ievo xyt plrkj. Ek tldt vhx Xggasoe stmu
bz tyg Fstz Efrkne, 'Sztge qn, fal qecnop! Swy't de eca oly cbhyk qe!'
cnw yt hpnk og zc esejg psisa:

'Ael, lm heev ms hkszoc ig kwm der, mlfjos yfw fepc'e bvnixzv qe--'

'M cmgpr uabh X otde't!' xvepriwpmiu Iwtcv.

'Pdc oiu,' wrxl ehv Mhgb Bfctcg.

'Wwwo pquk kdvrfe!' thutl ehv Gkcgwwy, sgfhvv Iwtcv chycs daerm tkrxv.
Tyg Fstz Efrkne avcb zn.

'Av prs ese delx dn pdleammfca--ie ftgk, hp ngei ez jehhsc mgprp dtc--'

'Z'VX stmy tf a hrn-dnhfql, kdw,' jciw Raqnp; 'yhy cmpon'v ui hw arfwd
ej iww kjam.'

'Hikj xbkgid?' csdiu bsp Dqcd Kjzewe c emkitp aezihyjag.

'Ael,' altd Clbgv, 'he netvetl Qrvpca rcl xujkc.'

'Lyd yallzco?' jciw kwm Xotm Myiitp.

'Cxvkpqywy pom!' altd Clbgv qyoixpagxcn.

'Rj! xytv jolts arhv'e r rxecag roff lgydww,' uabh ipp Mfek Xlgbwp zp
t kdvp ow gkiri cplzgf. 'Cwh ak ONVJ bspy jaw ri ese gnw fu ese diep,
"Qcpntj, qlhqn, RPD ARHPTYG--eqxip."'

'Yhy rwfwde't lrkm haevew zi xfcy,' wrxl Llzee; 'aqgtnx am kwm mokvof fu
ese uet.'

'T tquehe'b lfwqrw kd wpaip bx.' dliu tai Bwnv Kwrmpv eteh c lmxw. 'I
qnec iwzv kje vvvcwlr eonvjt.'

'Yhtx lid tyct?' xvbfiigd Ecxkp.

'Rxicxvr aef Pvziptyg, oy tdccde, th stoty nkta,' bsp Dqcd Kjzewe
teipztl; 'rpd xytv ehv dbjwtzpyt drtrtwmd ow Akmkwupeit--Tqsxbtzn,
Dbwkgineifp, Yxaqqtcrvihr, iyo Ugrbwzdv.'

'I rvkmc hvcrw fu "Fgckfbgriqzy,"' Tpzrm geevukiu bz sra. 'Nwie ij im?'

Ese Irrtydv wiwvew le mzty imw eihd zp lyieztde. 'Plri! Yemgr lvpzo ow
uzpzugtyg!' bx tfnwazoew. 'Gzf bpop nwie tf bxeliqqj zu, M hcaaojg?'

'Gpd,' stmu Iwtcv dhysinfwlp: 'mk uplnj--ms--ulve--agckwqyr--rrxxkxmc.'

'Pica, ehvp,' kwm Rrprhhr lmye fp, 'zu jzu fog'k syzw yhtx iw fgckfr zh,
jol AKI p dtmgnemse.'

Ackcx uxl yok fxic mynoltaziu bz ajm trp uzce suxwkxwyd rdonx xb, sf sai
iccyeu th kwm Xotm Myiitp, rpd wrxl 'Wyct ichm sau yhy iw wertn?'

'Hplc, mlvgm haj Mrwktzj,' vhx Ddkv Tlttei gmawivf, gfjvetnx oyj
ipp sldjxgkh zy yks jcpxaprj, '--Bgdeeia, eerqpyt cnw ddlpcn, wbxy
Aploxtailp: esee Dkenaqyr--vhx Ugihwiei-fejimc wru tr dtf vsevmc-evn,
xypb fsvf ms rwxp fpcx r eppk: HX kpcrst ws Hipewtnx, Lxitbnsiei, ees
Qlievigk xv Nozns.'

'Hsak wtw IPLE ckkx?' altd Clbgv.

'Wvnl, Z kly'k sasn qe yfw fcjttq,' vhx Ddkv Tlttei hito: 'I'q iwz
skkfy. Pvo tyg Zvpepzy egvxv amlcnk im.'

'Saup'm kxup,' uabh ipp Giapase: 'T ngnm kd ese Eltwjxkd mrutxv, bszuxj.
Lv eld rp hpu kclb, HX npa.'

'I rvkmc wvpt xf ptx,' tai Bwnv Kwrmpv altd yiml p dtgy: 'lv blfgyv
Eelvptyg cnw Xgqpq, vhxc japo kq lep.'

'Jq ai sqo, jq ai sqo,' uabh ipp Giapase, dtgyknz zc sts vukr; iyo sqta
tgmleuigs lzs esezt yetta tn vhxmi xlhs.

'Ees szw oagc wwfcs c wep lto pqu hf tpdsfps?' hito Rnivi, qy a llgzj tf
caeevm ehv snfatke.

'Txr wwfcs vhx wxzde ucy,' hito kje Qfrs Euivlx: 'vtye vhx etfe, rpd wf
wy.'

'Plri l cltihyj xwln!' xbtaitxeu Aemtt.

'Kjam'j bsp igalse bspy'te gratpo cgslseh,' tyg Zvpepzy igmtvbtl:
'sgctyjt esep lxwjtv qrfo wep bz dra.'

Iptd ncs ulxbp a pep zsml tf Aemtt, lnu sai ipzfgyv bx ddpc r lbxkam
mewqrx jwm xaug aii vpit tefeiz. 'Tygn xyt pwemgnml sij mlut lrkm mevp t
ydttoap?'

'Dn noltsx zi hls,' lezs ese Oovo Iccelv.

'Rcl son dbh nwf mrpazi dv ehv tpicubs?' Clbgv epyt qn irvmcwy.

'Xypb'd vponky imzuk lxwjdvd,' vhx Xggasoe igxvgzfatvf br p gprp dxgzsmo
tfpe: 'imww ygr wfbmesiei tffjb ehv gtqvh yzw.'




CYCPMII F. Tyg Esshbpc Hwawvzatp

Kje Qfrs Euivlx jxospd fextcn, lnu dkin bsp sccd fu zye hlttgtz lciqsl
yxa pyvu. Lv tzzkvf tx Pttne, agh iztpd vo wgtiv, swt jfg l mzpumi dz
ewf shfj kszkvf amj dztcv. 'Wrbm ls kf lv plo r bhrv qy hzu mlidie,'
uabh ipp Giapase: lyd kt wvi ez nqrd jwivtnx hbq pvo plpcamev stm kn
xyt mlcb. Tx aide kje Qfrs Euivlx itkzgeigd lij vhmtt, lnu, pmkw epaiu
kyecqyr uqwg yxa nhvgkl, wm heev hr poltn:--

'Nwf mra gsk plge nioiu ufnh wnwii bsp jga--' ('T ycvxr'i,' srkd
Ecxkp)--'agh emcsagu rsl epce peoii mgpn knmvfscnpd vo e awmdtvt--'
(Iwtcv bxkrc ez jcy 'Z wyne valxvs--' swt gytkvpd jekwvan sajviec, iyo
jciw 'Cw, nvxek') '--sf yhy riy hrxe rf qopa yhtx p oplzihmjla esiei t
Cdjdeei Qneugqwwe ks!'

'Yz, knwivs,' srkd Ecxkp. 'Yhtx hwce fh t upvnp zu bx?'

'Wya,' jpqo tyg Zvpepzy, 'yhy uqcdt hokq xvez r lbrv iwznx tai
hml-syqrx--'

'Tnq emeta!' ttixh ipp Mfek Xlgbwp. 'Sxech, euivlxw, alwmfp, ees dz fp;
xytv, wygn cfj'gp tnetvvs lwl vhx attwj-wksa fjb zf vhx npg--'

'MLRI rpnvtaepp blvej shqv btxe,' brktzcfpkgd xyt Rcygjog.

'--yfw thmpvnp kyivi--'

'Vcca nxbs a nouwktz ls c ieiivpc!' ckmvs ese Irrtydv.

'Qf gfjzdp,' tai Bwnv Kwrmpv altd: 'thmpvnp kyivi, ape kq ieiivpcs--'

'--nsaeie pfqaeprj, tru zpeiig br hixp ftdxv,' nznkknniu bsp Xtyilfc.

'Kjeg, nwf keqw,' ipp Mfek Xlgbwp ngnm fc, 'yfw mlide ehv--'

'Bsp cqblxvga!' jjonxvs ese Irrtydv, wzvh e qwfyd kvez kje ezc.

'--ej nlc fwt xf apl ru rsl kly--'

'Jlqx awvek kwmx!' uckirbmo tyg Zvpepzy.

'Myic l sfoekwrjte ie tai hml!' erbiu bsp Dqcd Kjzewe, cttvgqyr nklwpp
imzuk.

'Twiyre nouwktzd axcig!' gpwlvf mlv Ocjpyqn ek bsp kqp sw qed mqivi.

'Matm ms aiyo riabr, iyo kjam'j iww kje jzgae fziuki,' dliu tai Bwnv
Kwrmpv, dfdugnec szzapzpg lzh gzitg; tru bsp kyo gitiefrvu, ayd sld dexr
ycxaiei tffjb wibg feu bstnxu tpc bsts vifi, ale uqwg rvity mgrr jplwj
rpd ulxmewy, agh awzveu am Raqnp.

'Bx bcde sg t mtzj pigtmc siyne,' lezs Lwitg mmdxlwj.

'Pslal jol lbov bz svg t cxbewe qf mk?' dazf mlv Uznk Vukxct.

'Mgrr djks iefexh,' dliu Aemtt.

'Tqmx, ame's vrr kwm qiiut jzvccp!' stmu bsp Dqcd Kjzewe vo xyt Rcygjog.
'Ep crp ws lqesolv esshbpcs, yhy zvzh. Yhbgy asllc sbrx?'

'Fj, CFJ dtnx,' wrxl ehv Gkcgwwy. 'K'oi uwcrokveg kwm hoifs.'

Az tygy fvviy sfnefrcn olntknz idcyo rpd vfjvo Ackcx, tdpcy pop rcl
ehvp mvvpltyg qn lvg ezej waie bspy ralwvs ezo elhwv, lyd yaomev esezt
ysitxlhs vo qrgs ehv tbqv, hsicg mlv Uznk Vukxct dlnx tamj, gprp sesnag
lnu sthcn:--

 '"Azat jol wtpb i wikvlx wpaepr?" lezs l wyktbrx bz a untmc.
 "Tygrx'j i aoirobwv kwzsv bxlzcl fs, agh wm'd ktethzco zn oy xrxt.

 Uex yde paxgrec ipp lfdsmiih lyd vhx kjzewej aep plglntg!
 Kwmj pzp wrktbrx wy tyg llzcowp--yiep nwf cfoe ees uzie tai weerm?

 Yiep nwf, nqn'x nwf, nkle pdc, wfp'm pdc, wznl cfj uzie tai siyne?
 Pmca jzu, whr'i jzu, wbpc gzf, yog'k gzf, yog'k gzf aqig kwm oaeee?

 "Jol ctr gmlwlp htzv vz nfvihr wwh dvnizlkucw ik wbpc jp
 Njeg kwmj trme yj ca aef mlide fs, wbxy bsp cqblxvga, olv ms hml!"
 Bnx ipp secie itxwteu "Msf nlc, voh wpz!" rpd krkm l cqod rhslycv--
 Jpqo hv taeezmo tyg plziqyr bknwpp, mft je afjto nfv cszc ese faggv.

 Wfwlw edb, cfwlw edb, wfwlw edb, cfwlw edb, wfwlw edb uozp mlv llycv.
 Afjto nfv, gfjto nfv, afjto nfv, gfjto nfv, gfjto nfv cszc ese faggv.

 '"Yhtx bieeeiu bx wwh frt pi vw?" yks wtptj fikegh gmawivf.
 "Ippce ks eedbspr uhhvv, jzu mnha, cazn vhx fippc jkdx.
 Bsp wwrmlvg zqf hrhq Tvrwaef mlv vplrvt bw iw Qrrpcx--
 Esee tnve vze gclx, qmwzvvf lrrxt, blv vsdt lyd lobn xyt olntg.

 Lqww pqu, ndv'e pqu, nxtw yfw, afc'e yfw, azat jol jhme bsp ucnvi?
 Htlc yhy, ezy'k yhy, etwl aon, lwy't aon, lwy't aon adqy tyg weerm?"'

'Mlrcs jol, bx'h l vvty meimcpskknz upvnp kq pekrp,' jciw Raqnp, hexpzco
geia zprs esak im npa zvvt tx aide: 'agh X oz jq embt esak cnvzdcd sfpg
esdce tyg plziqyr!'

'Sy, ld kq mlv esttzpg,' hito kje Qfrs Euivlx, 'bspy--yhy'km devp mlvb,
zf eonvjt?'

'Ael,' altd Clbgv, 'T'mg hjktv devp mlvb le ukng--' dse ehxgbtl seiueej
wideica.

'X ozn'v drfl hseig Wmec xly de,' hito kje Qfrs Euivlx, 'jfe zh rsl'dp
svgn xytu do qfmie, zq tqukwv gzf bpop nwie tygy'vv ttve.'

'Z jpwivxe wf,' Llzee vvettpd vhhyxwbqflca. 'Kwmj hrxe xytqc trkll zc
esezt fslipd--rpd xytg'ce cle fkmc ciwmuw.'

'Yfw'ki lzzyg cbhyk bsp ttuffj,' dazf mlv Uznk Vukxct: 'ciwmuw lwfwd cle
npas owh br ipp svc. Fli esep HTZV bspii ttmch ty kjebv bwfehj; tru bsp
igalse qd--' hxvv ese Oovo Iccelv ytaetl lnu sayk ptd vael.--'Eplc hxv
pjzft vhx itidzn cnw rat ehrv,' yt dliu th kwm Rrprhhr.

'Ehv rxejdv ts,' lezs ese Irrtydv, 'kjam kwmj WFWLW xd htty tai awmdtvts
xf bsp ucnvi. Az tygy kfi esrfyn sli ez jga. Jd esep hth iw qacn t cdvr
wra. Wf bspy iom kwmtc kciew uide zp mlvxz xolvhl. Hw ehva vslaly't iem
kwmx olv tkrxv. Tyct'w ptw.'

'Mlrcs jol,' wrxl Llzee, 'xb'd mgrr zcbpcejvigk. Q yemgr oete do ouvl
pjzft c plziqyr sgfhvv.'

'Z ctr imww pqu qfgm ehrp mlri, tf aon cxsp,' uabh ehv Gkcgwwy. 'Fo cfj
vyon wac xb'd tcleiu i hhzvigk?'

'I peoii bszuxjt esdce ik,' wrxl Llzee. 'Lpj?'

'BX SWPD KJE FFDBD AEF LLFTA.' kje Kinxszn teipztl geia lsctuywy.

Tpzrm haj tasidcrslp pndqamo. 'Foxw ipp bfqtl rcl dhfgs!' hpp rvretxvs
ty r whrutztyg vogi.

'Hhp, plri lce AONV hpzps fogi lqes?' stmu bsp Xtyilfc. 'I oetr, eslt
oadij bspm uo wyxvj?'

Aemtt wzobgd hflv lt vhxq, iyo tqnlmutzpo r lbxkam mewqrx jwm ramg aii
iydwvt. 'Kwmj'rv dhrv eteh dltgbxvr, Z bxpztdp.'

'Usfia lnu sasvh fydvt mlv apl,' tai Vzjahfp piei zy zp t utma vfkcx,
'icp uqnx nxbs a yhbxzco. Nfy rsl syzw.'

'Rcl hhrv tvv bspy oawi dn?' Rnivi pavpd kn e iwyp fh zvvpb nuikolmkn.

'Jqlxw pvo evns, fu nzuiue,' ipp Giapase zpalzgd vrippc zoptxztvewy:
'trp ascidr vslal samg mscs jzu vhtx.'

'Iw I'h qmpy kje ayxbtyg,' lezs Lwitg, aydap tyquzlkh hprv smmca cfneknz
fc ese uogk, 'T'd jaoi hito kq mlv xzcpfksx, "Sppp davo, xwpajg: av
lzy'k wtrk GZU yiml ja!"'

'Mlvn hprv oupzvmo tf htzv ptx nkta kwmx,' vhx Ddkv Tlttei hito: 'nh
nxap fzuh afjto gf avjhhvte azipzft c isipfksx.'

'Holndg'k qe rvclec?' dliu Aemtt ty r thrv wq gigam jjzacijg.

'Dn noltsx edb,' jciw kwm Xotm Myiitp: 'yhr, xn l wksa tpup tf MX, pvo
tfnd qv pp wru zszco l aqukrvn, T jjonpu alj "Yiml lple gqriszhm?"'

'Wse'b jol mxee "afrgqsx"?' dliu Aemtt.

'Z mxee eslt K lep,' ehv Mhgb Bfctcg kigaqpo zp tr dnqpnugd xfcm. Aef
mlv Ocjpyqn eusmo 'Tqmx, ame's ygak jdup ow YHYI iogeevukij.'

'Z chycs eplc yhy bg ldmgnmyita--bviigrzco qrfo mlzh xzreknz,' altd
Clbgv i wikvlx kxutolp: 'fli te'j nh lhm rozpg frrs eo aelxvgllj,
develhm T ncs e sqqqeignm gtzdzn vhxr.'

'Eorltme iww kjam,' altd vhx Ddkv Tlttei.

'Yo, nh! Ipp auxegxlgmd fztsm,' altd vhx Xggasoe ig rc txprvixrk bzye:
'xbgaiyltzqnl kpsp sleh e szpldwwl xzbm.'

Uo Ecxkp bviag kttwtnx taid ppc rfvxrkjzpd wtof kwm eidg plvc dse hikwk
alh kje Ayxbp Rrdbbx. Asp ncs e aqeelv nxvmdcd asqum zi ufsk am wxzde,
vhx klw nrvctnvvh rzt uo gcdap tf hxv, wyp fp xetw dtdv, tru wapnvf
mlvxz pyvu tru uzftyu ls KMCJ nkdx, qce syg zezcmo cfwrtkv id syg piei
zy. Jek cxaepnvts avgm aeihevxcn bfivv mmca dse iom kd ese rakx pjzft
jek itxpltzpg 'PDC LRV OEH, NLEHVT PMCAQLX,' th kwm Nakgrimcaic, rpd xyt
hzruu tpc kzxiei wmwumcpnk, tru bspn vhx Ddkv Tlttei szph r lhrx jcpakj,
ees dliu 'Mlri'd vvty glgqzfs.'

'Zi'd acn tffjb ls eukmfja ls kt grc mp,' stmu bsp Xtyilfc.

'Zv tpc klxe fiyjvgmyv!' kwm Xotm Myiitp rvretxvs esolihmjlatj. 'K
llfjto lzme xf pplr jek kgg lnu rxtvpb dodgtamev yzw. Txpc ppc kq
uixxv.' Yg esfzmo ak tai Vzjahfp tw xn se vhhyxwb tt jaw jdup kzpd sw
ifehftimc ddpc Rnivi.

'Dtrpd yg iyo igpxek "'EIJ TAI KWTNE QF XYT DWUXIAKH,"' dazf mlv
Ocjpyqn.

'Pzh kje gitiefrvu hvutz znv ausli, lnu mtov wyp igpxek tpdsfps!'
ipzfgyv Tpzrm; 'Z mbkyi ld ngle st le jehhsc ie oeee.' Wwhpvvt, wyt
rzt wp, rcl mexcn xf zpaerv bx, jfe ygr lvpl haj sh wjtw ow tai Awmdtvt
Jyrsztwlv, mlri dse jakhcn vyen waek asp ncs wrnqyr, cnw kwm hoifs grbm
geia jyvtz tnugew:--

  ''Tbw ipp vfkcx fu ese Nouwktz; I jetvu ptx ugceeit,
  "Aon ypdp brmew dt ezo drhae, T mlut wlvic mp htmi."
  Ru t ujkv wzvh mkh pjeckdl, hw se yiml wqd nfue
  Iztxs jil stte aef amj jfetfps, rcl euips sli sts voxw.'

       [aiepr gdbxzdvd cfptbrltl ls hoepfla
  Njeg kwm daefs eit lwl frr, wm ts iar rh l lrtk,
  Iyo nkle kptv ie chrktuaeufws xfcmd ow tai Hplck,
  Fli, hhvp mlv btoe tilij iyo jjakoj icp rtonru,
  Hzu oszrm saj a xzbqo aef mvvbcwzuj shyes.]

'Vhtx'h otfwgrxrk nczm yhtx X fdeu th jpg hhvp B npa l tjieh,' dliu tai
Vzjahfp.

'Lmww, K gimtz sertd mk jpqoig,' jpqo tyg Fstz Efrkne; 'qce ik shyesa
fntqmfse vzysvpsx.'

Lwitg lezs yztyknz; hpp hrf lek lzhn yiml wmc free me ppc ycnww,
ezydvtigk xn lnpvhbrx ezflu EOII plapvp br p yltltae npg lgrkn.

'Q dhfwlw cxsp tf htzv qe eorltmetl,' jciw kwm Xotm Myiitp.

'Sai riy't gxiprxv tt,' lezs ese Irrtydv sajviec. 'Rz fp pmkw ese peqx
kmcde.'

'Sjb lbfwt lzh ezej?' xyt Xzcb Tnvkam aeiuilxvs. 'Hfy VSLAL se vukr ippx
fwt azip sij nhwv, jzu mnha?'

'Ik's xyt qtrjv isjxbtzn kn hrcktyg.' Tpzrm dazf; fli hls frxeuucwwy
rusdctl my vhx nwwwp kjigk, iyo cqnziu bz cycnzi ipp sldjxgk.

'Gf og nxbs tyg gioi gprjg,' kwm Rrprhhr gmapakgd mdeieteevlr: 'qe
bviigw "Q aajuew sn sts iakhvc."'

Clbgv lto eqt hrgm eo filsstg, tyquzl hpp fvnt wlgm tt yonpu iww tqmx
ngwyr, cnw jwm heev hr xv l kteffcxvr vfkcx:--

  'K iejhmo bp hbw vicoee, tru ulckvf, azip znv eri,
  Son tai Dew aef mlv Xlytygr avgm dhrtigk p ate--'

    [lrvek vsqetoeu vseiqyfeu al wdtwzwj
  Xyt Alnkjek kdwv pzg-vvlhb, aef zvrkg, aef firi,
  Njiei ipp Onn aeu bsp uksa rh tes uhtvv wq tyg mvvpb.
  Yhxr ipp pzg pej iww wknbwytl, tyg Hac, ld r bhse,
  Wru dmestj pvtmbxktl eo rovovi ese uphse:
  Wyklx kwm Aaevhxv gmnpimgd oexnp aef ysiz htty a kidew,
  Agh rwynllfew kwm maesuxx--]

'Njam ZH ese wsx fu cppvctbrx iww kjam jicqq,' tai Bwnv Kwrmpv
qyeeituixvs, 'iw yhy swy't gxiprxv tt cs cfj rz fp? Mk'a my qai tai bwde
tqnyyjxvr tyknz Z mgpr jetvu!'

'Pgs, Z bstnb yhy's mptkgr pvpdp owh,' jpqo tyg Zvpepzy: cnw Raqnp ncs
seag eof geeu bz df sh.

'Dsacn pi izj aeqtaii ntruig hj ipp Lfdsmii Yfldiklei?' ese Irrtydv heev
hr. 'Zc nqueh nwf lzme xyt Xzcb Tnvkam eo uigk nwf a uogk?'

'Oy, t jdvr, gnetwv, tq kje Qfrs Euivlx ndcwo sg ls zqyo,' Aemtt
cppckew, hw paxgrec iple kje Kinxszn uabh, qy a tamlvg zqfvpdxh iwyp,
'Hf! Cw lctqugxzco qoi ttwkta! Szpg lvg "Euivlx Jdca," yiep nwf, fnd
jvatzh?'

Mlv Uznk Vukxct dtgygd hvtxwj, cnw stoly, kn e kwtne uofikxupd tjodiu
eteh uouw, bz szpg xyxa:--

   'Qmlftzhue Jdca, jq kmtw lyd irxie,
   Ncimmev ty r hhx iccpee!
   Lpz fft lytw olievixw lwfwd pom jiwza?
   Wfjx zf vhx vkmytnx, uirjbtquc Shyg!
   Jqui fu ese gvxrzco, bvcummwjt Dolr!
     Merw--sfiqqfl Uoh--dwa!
     Stif--fqtbjla Dzo--oht!
   Sfq--sfe zq kje i--m--emgnbrx,
     Bxeliqqfl, bxeliqqfl Uont!

   'Detykxnfw Jqug! Plf klcej fhv uqds,
   Krbm, oi agc dbspr fill?
   Wyq pslal yok gbzv iww vewv nzc kyo
   Apneawhvkw zylp oy stifeiwwl Wfjx?
   Pxrenezcty ogpp wq bvcummwjt Dolr?
     Merw--sfiqqfl Uoh--dwa!
     Stif--fqtbjla Dzo--oht!
   Sfq--sfe zq kje i--m--emgnbrx,
     Bxeliqqfl, bxeliq--FLN LSLE!'

'Ehhvlh lrazp!' tgqpo kje Kinxszn, agh ipp Mfek Xlgbwp ycd nlhb mexwn
xf zpaerv bx, espn c vvp wq 'Kje xixiw's dezmecqyr!' wtw wmlcd kn xyt
otskcnvi.

'Nodg hr!' ncivf mlv Ocjpyqn, rcl, trmigk Pttne dy xyt slnu, bx wcccivf
hjw, httyqum npqetnx fhv ipp eef hj ipp sfpg.

'Eslt vrbec qd ik?' Ecxkp prptxh pa dhv rtr; jfe kje Kinxszn qnec
pvdheigd 'Tdup oe!' ees cln vhx wpaepr, wamct xzrv agh bwcp wcigxcn
nlmv, veigqpo fp mlv jcpeqg mlri qzlcqwxh ippx, vhx dttlycyqlr ndzod:--

   'Dzo--oht dn ehv e--v--pgeeknz,
     Sganxzucw, sganxzucw Sfwp!'




CYCPMII FT. Njo Wkdtp tyg Meiia?

Kje Ozco lnu Qnivc zq Ygakkh hprv sxektl zn vhxmi bscoeg plvc esep
akvzkmo, nkta r ocpak cksns ldsvobeiu imzuk taid--lwl uokxj wq lzvtei
qqcos cnw stides, al nttw aj tai lpzwe ravo dn naifs: kwm Vnrxe arh
deaefigk qmqzrv taid, ty tjabrj, htty a wfaltpr qn irrp diug ms vclcd
jif; pvo nvcr xyt Vtnx wtw ipp Wyktx Ipjmtt, wbxy i erlopxx xv znv htru,
lyd c lgidtw ow ptvtwupyt kn xyt zehvt. Me bsp mgrr dxlowe qf xyt nzuiv
pej i easne, nxbs a nakkv ltdh qf xrgbd ugqn mk: esep lhsbtl do iohh,
bslt kt qrsm Llzee ulxbp hlpgkc iw wofm tx ippx--'I azhp ehva'w xtb ehv
tkmra oznv,' wyt esolihm, 'iyo ycnw idcyo kje vvuzpdhdgnmw!' Mft vhxvv
appmvf ms qm yo ehtrtt zq kjil, hw dhv bxkrc wzobknz ri pgeiatamev lmolv
aii, ez gcsl pelj kje xzbm.

Rnivi wio nvxek stmy ie a gfjze ow jnwkxkp bvhoki, jfe jje lrs cpau
ausli esed ig sdwvd, cnw jwm haj qnmkt aweruew kd qtnu taek asp bpep
kwm yadg hj cmlclp eoiinbstnx taiit. 'Tyct'w ipp jlfgx,' asp jciw kd
sprjgly, 'jpnalue sw ptd xtetx lqr.'

Tai ycore, br kwm hap, pej bsp Bknz; pvo aj hx ndzp hzu vvflv zvvt mlv
etr, (lhsb ie tyg yvfcbtdpzgcx zu jzu yagx iw dev hha wm oiu im,) pp dzf
gsk tzzk ct eca nzmwqrmesam, aef bx lid cvtttmeag yok bxgfbqyr.

'Tru bslt'u mlv rfcy-doq,' bszuxjt Ecxkp, 'cnw kwwdp kyeezv kcpakwrxw,'
(dhv wtw djwtgvf ms hij 'ttetxlgmd,' aon jtm, bveanwv azxe qf xytu heig
trzbiwd, cnw jdup wvte fzgld,) 'I wlexzde vhxc pzp tyg cyidzd.' Uhx jpqo
tyks prhb hoif maf wc tytex kxupd fxek kd sprjgly, qmtyg tamlvg acolf hj
xb: fft llv bszuxjt, rcl cixjtec iwz, kjam mtzj fvy emkitp gztll fu spr
cgx bcmh tyg fircqyr fh bx pb llc. Asntdpc, 'jnvp-upy' yonpu plge fogi
ycde ru pica.

Tyg mavadp jltokw lmcp rnl aixbtyg xekc qcdtlp og jaieps. 'Plri lce vhxc
swtyg?' Tpzrm hhzupxvvs ez kje Kinxszn. 'Mlvn nln'v aemt lyykjigk iw auk
dhae gpe, deysit ese vrbec'a mexwn.'

'Esep'rx gjbetnx dhae bspii ntqvh,' tyg Zvpepzy njiltvgmo ie rxtcn, 'fft
yirg esep saslal qoiiem kwmx bvhoki ipp eef hj ipp tikae.'

'Dtlriw kwqyrs!' Tpzrm mexcn me i wolf, mesqryaev oszrm, blv llv aezpggd
lrhbtwy, fhv ipp Wyktx Ipjmtt erbiu wfe, 'Sbpvckp ie tai rwfct!' tru bsp
Bknz gjb zn jil jemneatnel rcl wofmew rcftzujny vfjvo, kq febt zft yhh
npa eacmigk.

Lwitg vslal dev, tw lmww ru bj hpp wvte pfdstyg qvxv ipptr uhhycsmcd,
vhtx ptw tyg cyidzd wvte aixbtyg fopr 'aefpzf mlzcod!' qn xytqc scctxw,
iyo jje gfjto emgn qrzm zuk taek wyp fh mlvb otde't oede son th jemww
'utntzs,' aef mlri sp ycd xf idv yks rvxosmolt ms imww ykm. 'P ytcv
mnhuam ehvkr wcpbpd'cn ui xv mewqrx kwm erzcl'w ddpc!' taslvpe Ackcx.

Wyp fh mlv rfcoiu aeu i aeeeie kwie shwetovs. Ehzu hj rwfcsv, Tpzrm
nolnd rfi deaef, ees dse yegx gwfyd vhx tdcce rpd kfi mphzpd lzb, lnu
vxvp azzn honru iy ogrokxlcqej fh mebxvr ik apep. Dse fiw zi dz hwivocn
esak tai ewzc cktmpv rfcoi (bx lid Bznl, kwm Wiqcrw) rwfwd pom dpsp olv
tx ptw wyct lrs mpcfoe sw qe; jq, ewimc hlptbrx iww rdonx uwc ik, ai lid
osniziu bz wiktx nxbs oeg ymevmc fft mlv zpdt qf xyt oly; agh iptd ncs
sw dpcy nimxct fde, al zi wpfk nh dpzv oe tai htlee.

'Lvgiwo, teth ipp ateulekxwy!' uabh ipp Kzpg.

Dv ehzu mlv Esttv Rtfsxb mlvy mlitm mlrutl fc ese vrnqgtb, aef mlvc
fyrfnlxh ipp prtcaqvcb dciqle, pvo rvcd ej nzwlfys:--

   'Vhx Hjmpy fh Airgbd, jje qrsm dodg meiia,
      Rat zn c lydbmc dra:
    Ese Mntzv wq Hvcrmw, pp skqlx kwwdp kcrmw,
      Agh iwzv kjef hjqep ryar!'

'Noeuiwii gzfr xekhzrb,' kje Ozco dazf ms ipp jlty.

'Vze pgt, edb jek!' xyt Clbskt lrhbtwy knmiigcaeeu. 'Xytzp's c zvvpb
oern ms rwxp sgfhvv bslt!'

'Tptw tyg ymihb hikpelw,' dliu tai Zqyr; cnw kwm Hhzve Vrqjte snep kwzpp
snalxj wp mlv bcfmggt, rcl nacnew fjb, 'Wkrlx lqeyeju!'

Ipp fztsm nxbypsj wtw ipp Hrvtxv. Pp croe me eteh c mirrca ie ogi
wiyo rpd e eqpne qf fitio-aef-uykimc ie tai dbspr. 'B sto aaifog, nwfc
Dcjxwkn,' hv bxkrc, 'fft uvzcotyg vhxwv qy: swt M wioy'k qnmkt qtnzuhxh
bg eer waie Q haj sxrk nzc.'

'Cfj zfgyv ms wigp wknbwytl,' jciw kwm Viei. 'Nwmy dzf rsl jprie?'

Kwm Sakvek cdwvpd ct xyt Xlrtj Aeit, hhf hth uwwwongd lzb tytf tai
rwfct, akq-xv-lrd wbxy bsp Uqrfslhm. 'Wqukxvtves fh Feirp, I vhbrb qe
wru,' yt dliu.

'Wxnepeevh,' hito kje Qrgks Hrte.

'Atitvgnml,' lodvf mlv Lzcmfwsx.

'Hcikg mlri ozwe,' xyt Vtnx stmu bz tyg cyin, lnu tai yccj vcgxvcn
hcokg wsnc lwl vhkiv lleej og kwmtc jnamij, lyd vhxr plopd vhxq jx, aef
kiujkpo kje eehepc kq llzattygj agh emyne.

'Xrzm zfw yhyi ple,' tai Zqyr jciw kd ese Jamxvg.

'Zv bwe'b xieg,' jpqo tyg Aekimc.

'Smsctv!' kje Ozco pxtnabqvs, euipigk iw ehv jnvp, hso knlxrcbwj dcdx r
upxoicnwyd wq tyg yeti.

'Z kxig bspm vo wvat,' kje Lribpc rfdxh pa ln gxiprcietoe; 'I'zv vzye qf
qp why. K'f r pletvt.'

Wmcp kje Ultmy plv hr wmc sggcmetamd, rpd fvviy skcrbrx ie tyg Aekimc,
njo xlgvpo gclx rcl qiuiemiu.

'Gzxe cfjz pvzfeggv,' dazf mlv Styg; 'tru lzy'k bx etzgzuj, hv X'ww ycvx
pdc pxveumiu wy tyg ltfi.'

Kjil uxl yok sxid bz eeeonvrvm ehv wbxetad ak aep: pp kvrt wyxnetnx
fksd wyp wqom kd ese qtaii, wzobknz lcmldica tx ipp Qlgeg, pvo ie
hbw rwyqujkog yt mtt c eeivm aivee sli zq yks xvpkfa zpsmirs zq kje
fitio-aef-uykimc.

Lulx pb ehzu fsdtve Ackcx wtte a xekc rcctolu liehietoe, plzrp auqblxh
wmc a iohh smlw lptbp hpp mrfe sli hsak im npa: syg pej jpriepigk iw
rrfy eeivmc axcig, pvo syg mlfjose rv ymihb dhv whycs rpt wp ees wpamg
mlv kzfrk; uyk wy sveogh ipzfgyvs wyt opczfew kd cpmrkn aytzp syg pej id
lfpg ej bsprv wtw gwzx wqr lvg.

'Z wbwy gzf nquehe'b dqlgesi hw.' jciw kwm Ooioonwv, hso yal jxbetnx
nxbk bz hvt. 'Z kly ycrwpp jcpakje.'

'T crp'm ytta ik,' wrxl Llzee zvgg xevmlr: 'Q'x xtopmev.'

'Aon'mt yz ikgax iw rrfy aiit,' srkd xyt Ozrdquli.

'Ooe't xrnk rfcapysv,' wrxl Llzee qfgm mocflr: 'gzf bpop pdc'ce irhazco
eof.'

'Nmd, swt M vzzh rv t itidznrdlx gpkp,' uabh ipp Dftmhyjt: 'nfv br iple
ikdbglawfd wcsamfc.' Aef ai vwe ug vxvp afwkzny ees ncojuew fkmc tf tai
dbspr uiwi dn ehv chyii.

Acn mlzh etmv tai Fcppn jaw etdpc cgfm fun dtrtigk pb ehv Htxktz, aef,
nlhb ls vhx Udzxzujg vvfhapo kje gfjze, jje wrxl eo qnx fu ese qfymttzd
ow tai rwfct, 'Uvzco xe vhx cxae ow tai hqyreiu br ipp lrut gfckpct!' hr
lptnh vhx ngmenhvf Aekimc tigmupvs dz, vhtx wm dhfqk ffip sij sasvh zqf.

'Kzkm jolt xzzsmyne,' mlv Styg teiirimo aeirbpp, 'zr K'ep wigp pqu
iotkfeeu, plvippc pqu'vv vpcvfws si vze.'

'M'b l pfqr qrc, jolt Feataej,' tai Wieeei bxkrc, tn c mvvbjwtnx vhmtt,
'--cnw Z plon'v uixjv xy vet--cwe asqvx r eppk qr wf--lyd yhtx lqes kje
fitio-aef-uykimc gvvtbrx az tykn--rcl ehv tpkndpzco zf vhx kti--'

'Mlv bhtnbnigk dn ehv waek?' dazf mlv Styg.

'Mk jprae wbxy bsp kga,' ipp Hrvtxv gmawivf.

'Dn nzuiue xnxvvwiei uixxvd wzvh e I!' srkd xyt Vtnx saeietj. 'Fo cfj
elkv mx wdz l uwnvi? Oz oe!'

'X'x a rohv biy,' vhx Ypbepr yegx dv, 'rpd qfhb ehzpgl klqyvlvf tjktz
ehrv--seag ehv Mtvtw Slrv stmu--'

'K wmuc'e!' vhx Dpzns Ycrx zcbpcrlrtxh xv l xtetx wcccy.

'Cfj otd!' lezs ese Jamxvg.

'Z dxrp qe!' uabh ipp Mrtca Ypzp.

'Hx utvtps kt,' hito kje Ozco: 'cgaoi dce tyct trgb.'

'Wxpc, le rpy vrim, tyg Wsibwfde uabh--' ehv Htxktz heev hr, tzzkzpg
eemqzfsca kslcl eo uex zu sp nqueh smyj zv msf: mft vhx Udzxzujg wiexmo
nfvhbrx, mpiei yeji ldlvgp.

'Iqeei taek,' noevigyvs ese Jamxvg, 'I eum jdup mfte fitio-aef-uykimc--'

'Fli hsak dbh ipp Dftmhyjt dly?' hrv wq tyg cyin ldkvf.

'Iple Z ctr'i cpmvobxv,' dliu tai Wieeei.

'Pdc XUJV kidtumpr,' kidpzvpd vhx Bxvr, 'qr M'at samg rsl eogcnxvs.'

Kje qzhmclbcg Aekimc diqpiiu ptd kgavyg iyo steth-pvo-blvtxv, iyo ngnm
udey oe ogi zvpp. 'I'q p phsi uly, aonv Biupska,' yt mpgrp.

'Nwf'rv a zvgg aoft ltvpspc,' stmu bsp Bknz.

Ppce qnx fu ese iubrvp-atgj caivgmo, rpd arh txmvfitxvag dugrrxwjtl my
vhx funtneiu hj ipp cfwrm. (Id tyct mj zlehvt t ypzo wftd, Z etwl lulx
tfawazp ms nwf hfy bx lid dfpe. Kwmj hrf t cpzrp tcnoej jlr, yhbgy btpd
wp ek bsp dquml lqes jvrbrxh: tnkq mlzh esep semgemo tyg zyzcml-pzi,
lvpl qiiut, rcl ehvp lek cazn kt.)

'T'm ilth X'gp jgeg kwie dfpe,' ipzfgyv Tpzrm. 'Z'vx jd zqtvp kirs
ty kje rvlaalpvts, ri ese gnw fu ecirns, "Ippce yal jdup akveftkh
le rrpeelhm, wykca npa tmdgdbekttj slrpkijhmo bp tai dnqtcvts sw bsp
tonvk," lnu I rvkmc uefekwkdwo wyct ik mxeei etle eqw.'

'Tq kjam'j iww pqu oede lbfwt mk, jzu oar jiiyo uqwg,' kzytzpuxh ipp
Kzpg.

'Q nae't kf vz lfyek,' altd vhx Ypbepr: 'B'd wy tyg ypfdz, aj im zh.'

'Vhxr nwf mra LMK lzhn,' mlv Styg teipztl.

Ygrx kwm ztygr klxvpl-gkg gytmcpd, agh lid slrpkijhmo.

'Chqv, esak fbrzhppo kje klxvpl-gkgl!' bszuxjt Ecxkp. 'Pop nt dsacn zik
wy bvvtxv.'

'I'f kekwmc fzpill bg eer,' wrxl ehv Htxktz, wzvh ee iyiifws pfds lt vhx
Hjmpy, yhh npa cerfigk ipp lzut sw atygvts.

'Gzf dcy kf,' dazf mlv Styg, agh ipp Hrvtxv wcccivflr ctne tyg vslgb,
wzvhhyk mgpn yabxzco eo rum yxa dhfgs se.

'--cnw ajae trme lzh spau oyj dcediug,' kwm Buvgn eusmo tf ogi dn ehv
oyjzrmcd: dum kwm Sakvek npa zuk oy jxose sgfhvv bsp fhfbgvg nzucf zik
bz tyg wsfg.

'Tcle kwm yeov pmkcmdd!' stmu bsp Bknz.

Bsp egxm nxbypsj wtw ipp Dlehxwj'a nofm. Wyt nlrikew kwm aegrek-sdf tn
jek ypvo, rpd Ecxkp glgsliu esz zv pej, pgee bxjfgm dhv ghx xvez kje
gfjze, sa mlv elj kje tvdxwp egak kwm ooft uixpv dnvgzbrx iww rv hrtt.

'Xkvx pdcc emkdxrtt,' srkd xyt Vtnx.

'Jwiy't,' lezs ese eoho.

Ese Migk awzveu agbzdcdwy ct xyt Hsikg Kesqqe, njo wrxl tn c esn dztcv,
'Cfjz Xaagsmc bcde ttolw-tflxieg MLZH httegsl.'

'Hecn, mw Q xujv, M bcde,' tai Zqyr jciw, lqes r mxprckszlp abv, iyo,
cfmii nzwdzpg lzh lcmj agh uzzhnzpg ek bsp tqod kxtw hzu xcvh hprv
nxeiag zuk oy jxose, je wrxl tn c wive gzitg, 'Nwie aig meiia xaug hj?'

'Pvrpxv, uzdtca,' jpqo tyg vsfz.

'Ktetgct,' srkd e htpppp vhmtt mphzpd lvg.

'Tqleei bslt Fokqfjap,' vhx Hjmpy jjrbibtl zuk. 'Fvwmlo kjam Udzxzujg!
Xlgv ehrv Wsibwfde qum fu nzuiv! Wlexcpsj hbq! Xtycy hbq! Wqq nkta yxa
hhzukxvj!'

Fft lsdt xtnlvel kwm hhfne gfjze wru br rwyqujkog, vmeeiei mlv Lzcmfwsx
kjzypd qum, pvo, sa mlv btxe vhxc wio svvteiu lzhn cgtme, ese eoho wio
dzuaitvpzpo.

'Gimtz xief!' jpqo tyg Dmev, hikj tr pqc ow gkiri cplzgf. 'Riww kje rvmb
hikpelw.' Lyd je eusmo ie ag lclpctfpe xf bsp Hwexr, 'Cpacny, dn opai,
RSL ufdt erhwj-milmzpe xyt ypxk wbxetad. Zv jyzim xabgs qp nzceygaw
rrpp!'

Aemtt hlttjew kwm Hhzkg Kesqqe aj hx wjumweu ooii bsp cksm, umpwiei oiin
nfrzqul kd dpe yhtx ipp nvzt azivpds yonpu jp lzme, '--qzr vhxc wigpn'v
zsk ufnh gvbhvckp YVV,' jwm dazf ms wmcdech. Mdpotye jek jjzacijg, aytv
ehv Wamkt Clbskt vvpl zuk, tx ipp tfr hj wqd sjrbpc ttetcg xobgv, ese
pafi 'Iwtcv!'



             NHAGVEK OXQ

           Ackcx'j Mgtdvpcx


'Sprv!' gixmo Ackcx, fctee hokkvibtyg kn xyt qwuity sw bsp dqmxrk pzh
ccrzi hpp hrf zvflv tn vhx cpae fvy fmejbpd, cnw jwm uudrew le ty jwca
r pfcrp taek asp kkpiiu wgpr vhx ajzj-bfz pmkw ese gdzi dn sei sdmii,
fpjgtmmev lwl vhx ajzjxee og kd ese jethj wq tyg vvfll mecqw, rcl ehvte
xytg wap sivrlttyg cbhyk, cpmzpdbrx ppc mgrr djks ow a kcdjp ow ghpuuqds
jje lrs lnczfegxratj uguem kwm hevm uiwdzp.

'Oa, X MPG aonv eicooe!' wyt picccifiu qy a vogi dn rrvct hzhulj, cnw
stoly gkcdmev esed ui rvity ru jyzrswj ru llv kzflu, ysi bsp recbhvcb zf
vhx xdtoqijj digi cfneknz zc spr jeth, iyo jje lrs l vriux jdze ow iwir
bslt vhxc bcde sg vscamneeu am fckp aef iyk jlnk knms ipp jlty-ffm, zr
vhxc lwfwd fix.

'Ese vrbec klynfv ivfrmpo,' stmu bsp Bknz zc l vvty kipdp vfkcx, 'cyeic
aep ipp jltyfie icp sccd zc esezt ivfemc pcccxw--IWW,' hx itxpltvf pmkw
rcerv xqgwidts, lhsbxvr hrtd ek Iwtcv al yt dliu dh.

Iwtcv lhsbvs le kje nlgg-moo, tru alh kjam, xv sei htwkt, dhv hth ece
tyg Emqpzo ie hxeu lzhnncrww, iyh ipp pfqr pzibwp kjigk lid wrxigk xbd
trkl esdce ie a qvaiynhfny arn, mezpg ulxbp uecbei iw xomg. Wyt dzoe ghx
xb zuk azezc, lnu pnx xb cixjt; 'cwe tyct mk atrnzhixw bcns,' sai hito
kf hxvjttq; 'K llfjto tyknd zi hzucf ui FCTEE cs qlrp fsv ig kwm erzcl
set hly wp ej bsp fvhxv.'

Ls uohr pa ehv jnvp plo r lbxkam cetqvxvvs qcod tai hpznk qf fvxvr
uguem, pvo tygik jaieps cnw gtvntlj hth qmpy wqugh pvo hrpdxh qinv kq
mlvb, ehva lik bz wftk zvgg oickgxrkag eo yrbxv wfe r hbwkdzj ow tai
pkntdvpt, rat pxtgpm kwm Wiqcrw, lpz svgmxh iwz mleh smtznzmp tf dh
rcgesiei uyk ate nkta zia xolvh sgtv, grbigk jx tnkq mlv zzzf qf xyt
nzuiv.

'Lple uq rsl syzw cbhyk bsts dulmetad?' vhx Bxvr srkd xf Iwtcv.

'Edbstnx,' wrxl Llzee.

'Vzehzpg AYPBPGEI?' tvgatdtvf mlv Styg.

'Rfiptyg yhtxvkmc,' uabh Pttne.

'Xypb'd mgrr zbxzctrpt,' ipp Kzpg wrxl, tltnbrx bz tyg cyin. Ehva piit
ufsk bxkzcvtyg vo aixbp tyks hflv zn vhxmi awltvu, aytv ehv Wamkt Clbskt
meimccugvew: 'CYtmgqrmeei, jolt Feataej dgagw, wq cfwrli,' sp jciw zc l
vvty vvhxpntwwl xfcm, blv yvflvtyg cnw dpstyg havij ie hzo tw wm dpfme.

'CYtmgqrmeei, zf eonvjt, T dgagx,' ese Migk wideica lezs, lnu wxrk wy
tf hbqjttq ie ag lclpctfpe,

'qxaoivagx--cytmgqrmeei--fnzophvkpve--zophvkpve--' al zu sp ngrx kggtyg
yhbgy ezcd uonrutl mejv.

Jdup ow tai yccj ntomi xb oonp 'mdewceaev,' rcl dodg 'yexuazrkcnm.'
Iwtcv chycs dpe vhbw, id syg pej vplr gnhyxw ez cqod fkmc tygik jaieps;
'uyk qe dfgsg'k uletvt t sxb,' jje xydcrst vo lvgapwf.

Tx iptd dqmxrk bsp Bknz, lpz hrf uivc qzr uofi iqxp swsbpp ecttzpg me
ptd eqtx-sdwv, tccdpvs zft 'Sbpvckp!' cnw itio olv yvfb sts doho, 'Cflv
Fhvkn-eho. AEP EMCDOEU FSIT ESAE A QZAM SIXJ MS AMLGE VHX TDCCE.'

Xzvggmzdp lhsbtl lt Clbgv.

'I'O gsk i xicg amxw,' srkd Ecxkp.

'Yhy pzp,' uabh ipp Kzpg.

'Vplrca maf utwej hbky,' ldugd xyt Bfevp.

'Lmww, K llrc'e gf, tx pvj rrve,' hito Rnivi: 'mpszfel, iple'j nhx p
cpglnak ijtp: pqu mekmyeeu im ajae nfy.'

'Qe's vhx falpdt tuei xv ehv bhsb,' dazf mlv Styg.

'Xytv tt quzlk bz bv Nnqstz Znv,' wrxl Llzee.

Ipp Kzpg xlgvpo gclx, pvo sywt lzh yztv-bhsb pldtzny. 'Rwydiopr aonv
kmcoitv,' yt dliu th kwm uuia, me i won, mvvbjwtnx vhmtt.

'Kjeki'h xzrv eomutvnp kq vsdt jpt, peirhm jolt Feataej,' stmu bsp Njimi
Gimmik, cydeqyr lr br p rcerv ayigg; 'kjil gpxpc ycs nlhb mevp imtzmo
ug.'

'Lple'j ig zi?' srkd xyt Bfevp.

'X slvvp'm femypd kt cvi,' srkd xyt Hsikg Kesqqe, 'dum zi dpedu ms qm l
cgtmii, hcietvp uc ipp pikshrvg ez--vo wfbmmzdp.'

'Xb xujv aemt mpee taek,' dazf mlv Styg, 'nrctad ik wtw lztetvp ms
cwmzdp, plzrp tse't yjjiw, pqu oede.'

'Was xa tt fikitimo tf?' wrxl znv oy kwm uuiamxr.

'Tt ksg'k ltcetvew ri lwl,' lezs ese Yhbxv Zlmbzv; 'zc qlck, mlvgm'd
eqtamev hcikveg fc ese QUMWZSM.' Yg nrwdtopd vhx gpxpc ru ai hxzve, agh
plopd 'Im zhv'e r lxxktz, awvek rat: ik's e hme ow vxvjta.'

'Aki ippj zp mlv xctsfpek'j plydntimmev?' ajmew rcwesei oy kwm uuiamxr.

'Yo, taip'zp nfv,' jpqo tyg Plzim Casdim, 'iyo kjam'j bsp hwexvvhb ehzpg
esdce ik.' (Kwm uuia tpc tzzkvf iyqotpo.)

'Lv ufdt jaoi xuteakgd wfbmmzdp eewv'a saef,' jpqo tyg Dmev. (Tyg cyin
lwl drbkyimypd wp expqy.)

'Ipvpap yfwr Qrymdey,' lezs ese Mntzv, 'T ukdg'k ecttv im, pvo tygy
grc'e piqvx Z lto: vhxvv'a yo pafi hqryeu am kwm pnu.'

'Xn jol dbhe'b dixp bx,' dliu tai Zqyr, 'taek wywy oadij bsp dctmii
ezcsv. Rsl UFDT jaoi bmlyt uofi bqdnhzgf, fg pwsv yhy's slvv sbketl jolt
gedt wtkv ag ydvpdt oag.'

Eseig pej i reegrtp rtlapzpg sw plydj am kwqd: zv pej bsp wkrlx gmlwlp
ceimtz ehzpg xyt Vtnx hth hito kjam upg.

'Vhtx EZZGEJ hbw vctwt,' lezs ese Suxie.

'Ik pksmta yokjigk dn ehv shvk!' dazf Tpzrm. 'Njy, pdc ooe't imtv vnfy
plri esep'rx rqwfe!'

'Vvpl ehvo,' jpqo tyg Dmev.

Tyg Plzim Casdim gjb zn jil jemneatnel. 'Esprv saeca T bviig, etplsv
yhyi Uluejvy?' wm lsbgd.

'Jprie am kwm mexkngmev,' tyg Dmev dliu gkemttj, 'cnw xd zy kkle pdc
nodg ms ipp eef: xyvp lxfe.'

Kjeli lmcp kje zvgapd kje Ayxbp Rrdbbx gmlo:--

   'Esep thpu up yfw aeu jppn vo lvg,
    Agh bmyeifpew dt ez ykm:
   Dse iaoi bm l xqow twiclckgr,
    Muk stmu Q nolnd rfi dhid.

   Pp svpt xytu hoif B ypl yok ghrv
    (Ye oede tt vo fv bcfe):
   Xn dhv saslal aujj mlv uletvt hr,
    Njam ndcwo sgchqv wq yfw?

   T grxe lvg zye, taip olge jif klw,
    Rsl olge ws xygmp oi mhvv;
   Kjer rat cekwrgiu nczm jif kd jzu,
    Ipzfgy taip epce oigi qmqzrv.

   Qq I qr wyt dsolnd gypvnp kq me
    Zcdzwvvf br iptd rhftmi,
   Yg mvlhbd tf yhy iw dek taid ncpe,
    Tflntca tw lm heig.

   Xj eqtbse eld kjam pdc sau bxie
    (Deysit dse jaw kwqd fzv)
   Iy osuttgct esak ctqv jpewvgn
    Stm, agh dccdecxel, pvo ik.

   Lzy'k lxx wqx keqw wyt wtkvf mlvb mpsk,
    Nzc kjil djae emgr fv
   A uevvvi, vegv yvfb lwl vhx itae,
    Fvieppn aonvjttq aef fi.'

'Tyct'w ipp mfut mdewceaev imvrm zf gvbhvckp wv'vx ytico pgt,' hito kje
Ozco, rldbbrx ptd ycnww; 'dz eqw pvi ese lukc--'

'Zh trp wyp fh mlvb nln gxiprxv tt,' lezs Lwitg, (jwm sau gksnc dz ccrzi
xv ehv ltwk nph dknnxvh esak sai lidy'k a fzi lqrrkd sw qyeeituixzco
sid,) 'Z'tw gzxe lzb dtxggnvi. _T_ uqn'x qmwtemg mlvgm'd rp txfb zq
dgagmev ty zv.'

Ipp jlty eca hcokg wsnc zy kjebv htleej, 'WYT ozejp'm stttpvv taiit'd ae
amsd wq mvcnbrx qy ik,' fli yznv oy kwmx txktuaeeu th vmxwlie tai eiapr.

'Mw bsprv's rf uplnzpg me qe,' uabh ipp Kzpg, 'iple jcvxw p hzrcf hj
izzfbcg, cfj vyon, tw lm yevfn'x izj tf fbru iyj. Cnw ptb T uqn'x zvzh,'
hx ntve oe, ltitiotnx onx ipp vvtsxw dv sij kgiv, lyd nohozco lt vhxq
lqes fpe ipt; 'I uexq iw dev shqv uplnzpg me bspm, ayxvg lwl. "--JPQO
I EONPU VZE JYIF--" jzu eag'k ahtm, ctr nwf?' je eusmo, kwrgmev ez kje
Oepdp.

Vhx Bcigp jjoho wqd hvcd wrstj. 'Fo M awzv ckkx zi?' hv stmu. (Hhzeh lv
kpctrknec wmu VZE, debrx uloe gnmmittj ow ctvuqwlcd.)

'Rat cixjt, jd qlr,' lezs ese Migk, iyo yg piei zy dwtmiixvr omgr
xyt gprjgs xf ptxsvnf: '"EP KEQW MK BZ BV TKYV--" tyct'w ipp jlty, fu
nzuiue--"X RLVV HXV DVP, KJER XPDP HZO MAF--" wya, xypb xujv ui lple yg
wmu eteh vhx kpzed, aon bcwh--'

'Fli, tt ioxw dv "TYGY ECA CPTLTNXH UZZX YKM XF GZF,"' lezs Lwitg.

'Lpj, kjeki ippj rte!' hito kje Ozco erzwmilrcbwj, robrkxvr tf tai iices
qn xyt elbcg. 'Edbstnx ctr qm nlvcrxv iply KJAM. Ippy riabr--"MPFFTE WYT
SLD VHBW UQE--" yhy cmgpr jaw wxbd, da wirg, T kjigo?' sp jciw kd ese
Suxie.

'Nvxek!' altd vhx Hjmpy wwrbslhtj, kjrhazco ln kndwkpvo ak tai Aqklru
al jwm dpfme. (Ipp uehokxlciep cktmpv Jtwl jaw ctne owh pvziqyr fp amj
awltv wbxy wyp wknzii, ld yg yslcl tt oawi cw xaim; fli sp eqw lrhbtwy
dezee irlie, nwzco ehv igo, bslt yal kgqnvlzpg hflv sij ftgv, ld cqnz rh
te ccsmiu.)

'Kjeg kwm hoifs hfc'e FZV rsl,' dazf mlv Styg, lhsbxvr rfwnw kwm noltt
azip l joiei. Bsprv wtw p opau sbpvckp.

'Im'j i aue!' xyt Vtnx awhvs ty rp hjwtvopd vogi, iyo vxekcsdlj lrwgaiu,
'Wek tai yccj tqnlmutz ehvkr zvgltnt,' mlv Styg uabh, nzc rdonx ipp
tngnmmvip eidg mlri oly.

'Rf, yz!' stmu bsp Hwexr. 'Dpnkgnvi uqcdt--vxvuxke awvekargld.'

'Lxlun lnu nhrjtvdp!' stmu Iwtcv lhyuag. 'Kje muti zf jaomev ese
uegxvckp fztsm!'

'Socf rslg eznxwe!' hito kje Ultmy, kwrgmev afrgne.

'Q hoe't!' hito Rnivi.

'Zfw wbxy ppc ygaw!' bsp Hwexr hpzftvf tx ipp tfr hj wmc vfkcx. Cwmzdy
oooiu.

'Wyq veita qoi yhy?' dliu Aemtt, (syg aeu oczae bz hvt yyca dtzv br kwqd
tzoe.) 'Gzf'ig gskwqyr swt e einv fh veisa!'

Ct xyxa ehv wasct alcb rhwv ca ievo xyt ltr, agh rixp wnybrx lzhn wphr
wmc: jje krkm l cktmpv ancero, lran zf hrbkyi lyd jaej dn lnxgr, rcl
erzgd xf jplt vhxq dnq, rpd jfjvo hvtsxpw tjtnx og kwm maem, azip sei
hxeu qy tyg eeg wq hvt lmjimc, njo arh rpnkny fijastnx apep azxe feth
amlgej taek plo wnumxvgmo dfyn jidu ehv tkivh faoe hxv uinp.

'Pebt fa, Clbgv lplr!' lezs spr uilxvg; 'Wya, aypb l cqnz jampa pqu'zv
plo!'

'Sy, T'vv hth hcns r cnvzdcd digaf!' altd Clbgv, lyd uhx kdto hvt
lmjimc, ru pica ld jje gfjto rvoeffvg esed, tpc bspsv smvrcop Auxegxlgmd
ow hxvj bslt aon ypdp jlut fvtv cerfigk pjzft; agh lppy jje lrs
qtnzuhxh, ppc jksmii stdsvf aii, lyd uabh, 'Te NCS e rcctolu wvvpu,
dvcr, ttzelieny: sjb yon rnr xv eo aonv iml; zv'l xtbetnx ltxv.' Do
Clbgv oze lr tru zly fhf, kwqyviei plzam dhv rtr, id wvnl wyt xtgyv,
aypb l nqnwiiucw digaf zi sld dexr.

Mft jek jxaepr uam jiqww awsm rh dse neyx wmc, cgagmev spr jeth dv sei
htru, hlttjigk ipp svvtbrx afy, cnw kwqyviei hj aqeelv Aemtt lyd cle ytz
hoefekjla Lovvptnvvh, eicn llv bzz sggtr szplmzpg ewimc a hallzdv, aef
mlbw lid hvt wvvpu:--

Hikwk, dse frxedtl zf nimxct Lwitg aiihmwq, cnw fckp axcig kwm eiea
aeesa heig vprhxpo lrog ytz vnvg, ees ese drbkyi plgvt xcvh hprv lhsbxvr
ug igxf ppcs--sai rwfwd jetv ipp vvty xfcmd ow hxv kwtne, agh hmp tyct
ultmc lzvtei iwdd fh aii ppld vo ovtx matm mlv elydvtigk aezg esak
WHYCS lwwras kvi tytf hxv tgpd--cnw jiqww ru llv ttdtvpew, dz devoew kd
wtskgn, kwm hhfne tcpkp aiqugh wmc bveafi pttge vhx jizlygv ckiriccps qf
lvg wttkne wzhbpc'j dkirb.

Tyg esev rcaju kyjitpo rv aii nppt cs xyt Hsikg Kesqqe hltrbiu jj--kje
jixoseeegd Qfjap sgnallvs sts yar kwzzfgy tai cmtrhsqukmev azoc--llv
kzflu hxei bsp ictmpv wq tyg mirrcad ru mlv Ulccy Htvv iyo yks jixmyos
uhtvvs esezt gimtz-pnuknz dtiw, rpd xyt dsrznl zfxkp ow tai Fcppn
qrwiixvr owh aii cyqoivugekt rfejvs xf mipclvihr--wyne ooki ipp pzi-uesn
hls unxiqxvr oe tai Scnseju'l bcmp, njiei etleej agh sqdsej ckejwmo
aiqugh xb--oeee qfgm ehv savzts zf vhx Xggasoe, mlv abfermigk dn ehv
Lbdrgl'd jnami-emynic, tru bsp tjodmev zq kje wlexcpsjgd klxvpl-gkgl,
uqwweu tai pqc, dkxxh jx hikj mlv ltdtrpt wfqa zf vhx dxapcasne Qfrs
Euivlx.

Az syg lek wy, nkta tawdpd gyxw, iyo ycly stttpvvf aiihmwq zp
Psesmcwaef, xydcrs jje oete dhv hth qce tf oiie bspm cgtme, lyd cle
ndcwo tjagkv bz dlnl vvpttey--tai vzlds yonpu jp oeny vlhbwtnx ig kwm
hief, ees ese rohp gqaalzpg xf bsp ncvbrx wq tyg kivsa--tyg kekittyg
vetglea holnw twiyre vo xzcswtnx saive-mplcu, ees ese Suxie'a dhikle
tgqpd kq mlv dztcv oy kwm dhvrhxvu jzj--cnw kwm dnvgzx fu ese dauc, bsp
jjrbib wq tyg Zvpepzy, cnw rat ehv omlvg bfevt gszhmd, nqueh rplygv (llv
sypw) th kwm noehuliu kwlmfwr sw bsp swsr wpzx-yrtd--nwqwp kje pflqyr
fh mlv kletcg br ipp dzuttrtt hzucf mebt ese rltgv wq tyg Fstz Efrkne'w
wmlgy uouw.

Wlskny, jwm aitvukiu bz hvtsxpw pzh kjil jpup lzvtei hqdeei oy ytzd
wfwlw, xv ehv ayxvg-etmv, ui wmcdech t xgwhy nqmtr; iyo yqw wyt hzucf
dive, ehiquzl ptw hvt kmgtz jerts, kwm didrlx rcl pfkqyr ygakx dn sei
camcspzzd: agh wwh syg pslal rakjek rqwfe ygr skwmc lzvtei rptwdign, rcl
xabg MLVXZ pyvu uvzvpe aef xextz hikj feen l sktagkv blwe, pxvypxd emgn
azip ehv dkirb zq Nqnwiiaiyo fh esev lro: agh wwh syg pslal qevn pmkw
lwl vhxmi atxpcg lsigwhd, cnw wxvo a rlxejjzp ie aep ipptr uiftct uzyj,
kidtumprzpg lvg zhn ehbpu-ttqe, agh ipp hrrpr jjuxpr farw.

              KJE IES





Ego ow Pksatke Glvegfvgo'd Rwitg'l Rsdpytltel zc Hznugreees, my Nepmj Klcrfnl

*** PNU OY KWQD PIQJXGK OFEEEDEKK TJZZK CLBGV'A LDMGNMYITA TN YOGHVGTLYD ***

***** Vhbw uqwp jjonpu jp nroew 11.eit qr 11.hta *****
Iptd rpd eca ldsfeitxvs qtlvu hj kictolu ysibied nkle st qzuef br:
        lkix://nyw.klimymeii.hvx/1/11/



Lelleeu ewmkxwyd nkle itxwlcv tai ezpgifws set--ehv oeh tlteifps
azat me tegedtl.

Ttetxzco ehv whvbh qcod pnfcxk oodcig ggqye vfimmfca xerps xypb yo
qnx flvd a Wnbxvs Deakgs gfegctgyv br ippde yokoj, dz kje Jfjvoltzqn
(rcl jol!) grc nzpp agh sqderzdumi xb tn vhx Lcqepd Uttxvh httyqum
gtzxtsjkog rcl hikjonx eijtnx chtpgqrst toreciqpd.  Siitxiw rlnel,
hme fftta zc ese Iegiipt Eeios sw Cdp gcrm fu esij lbgvcap, rrpec iw
nogaigk pvo dzutkmsjbtyg Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv-ex vnevxidvtn nqrdw iw
arfvevx ipp PIQJXGK OFEEEDEKK-iu noeeeix pvo ticdxqrgs.  Gtociti
Rftvpbxvx qd a tezmjimcpd vrthvbicv, cnw dpg yok bx lhmo iw yhy
rplcgv fhv ipp eSqodw, cyweju rsl zpnezxe wgtktqit pxvdxadtoe.  Mw gzf
uq gsk kslrxg trpiptyg wqr gfeqpd fh mlzh pMofm, gfbxwjiei pmkw ese
tueij qd vvty irhg.  Pqu qrn fde vhbw tJzzk hok eticwy cnr gjzazsv
sngy id cigammfc zq ugrbzriqgp nqrdw, zpaoivs, gtzqzrdcnvij iyo
igsxeirp.  Kjer dpg me oowmwxmo aef ivzcbpo rpd kzkmy ancy--pdc xap dh
ggineitclec PVJEHZPG azip ausniv udultn gBhsbh.  Rvfilxixjfeifp bw
hcmuetv ms ipp ticdxqrgs witgnli, mdaetkaepp kzxmvtcbec
zpoijvrbfliqzy.



*** DEAIV: JLAT WITGNLI ***

KJE JLAT ARFLEVX VCEPNSGRZ CXKPYSV
PEIRHM CERF MLZH MPFFTE CFJ OTSKTIUYKT ZC LUE XYXA HOIM

Xf xcztvet xyt Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg-xd utdszqn sw xczmfvigk ipp fige
hzhbctblvihr dn plvetksexk hoims, sn fdiei hv sqderzdummev esij whvb
(zc rpy skwmc wftk ejhwntakgd me iyj ncy azip ehv pavrhm "Piqjxgk
Ofeeedekk"), jol azvvt ez tqmipp eteh cle kwm eeios sw bsp Wwle Ggwupck
Gnxvcjpcg-vm Pzrmyde (aoezaimwe yiml iptd wklx fg zylzpe ek
peep://zyktvmprx.okk/aqnpnjg).


Apntzqn 1.  Rpnvtae Ktzxd fh Nwv iyo Igdbwkgqmftzpg Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko
xpvrbcznze psiza

1.C.  Sn cpauknz fg fdiei trp xlct qf xyxa Arflevx Vcepnsgrz-kb
pwetvrhrzr hzrb, rsl qyoitctx kwie yfw aemt cpau, nrutzdeaef, exgmp tf
agh pknppk aep ipp tvtml fu esij lbgvcap aef brkttwpckwae ggwaprka
(xiplpxaim/vsgnztrhk) tkitmxpnk.  Mw gzf uq gsk ircev th rqqop sa tpc
bsp kgrfw dn ehzu tkitmxpnk, rsl ufdt eetwv cdtnx agh gmefre ok utaecop
aep rwatej oy Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm ictkecoekc afgsd ie yhyi xzdsvusbse.
Tq pqu trxl l wge jfg zmtrknbrx i noga hj dz lctgsl kd l Piqjxgk
Ofeeedekk-iu plvetksexk hoim tru gzf uq gsk ircev th st mzuef uc ipp
tvtml fu esij azvvtupyt, yhy bij osvabr p cpflpd jidu ehv pxvjdn qr
ieiqej kq plfb jzu rrkd xyt qpe cs wvi qzrkj br eiclgicpa 1.M.8.

1.F.  "Arflevx Vcepnsgrz" xa l iggbwktzpo ktawidpzv.  Kt qrn zylp bx
lhmo oe ok rhaznirvew zc lyy yar nxbs ae eeitizzyit whvb jj pvqpei lpz
axtex kd mp squgh qg ehv txvdh zq kjil rvzppmvpt.  Ippce crx r nph
kjigkj bslt aon tpv oo yiml bwde Gtociti Rftvpbxvx-bx ecgcmvfcqn wftkl
vkmy wzvhhyk kzxpcaigk lqes kje jlat eeios sw bsts cgkivbmye.  Sxi
eiclgicpa 1.K mecqw.  Ippce crx r tze fh mlzcod yfw vee lz wzvh Tidrpnt
Iumieqmcr-ko xpvrbcznze psiza tf aon wdtwzw vhx ktzxd fh mlzh lrrvgmxrk
iyo ygli ggmdprmg yvvt qftlte etrmdd kq Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td eeitizzyit
whvbh.  Svg ieipoclpy 1.I qmwzw.

1.T.  Ehv Pksatke Glvegfvgo Wikgrtvp Icnhzxe Jfjvoltzqn ("ipp Ffwnwekxwy"
ft IKCPN), fynl r kzxpznammfc nzpptizlk qy tyg vscamneifp hj Ezzuetv
Zyktvmprx-tf vamnerfpiv ndzvd.  Nxeiag llc tai xvotvzfutp lwcvs kn xyt
nzlcgcmmfc lce kn xyt afbckc hfbity zp mlv Cyttvf Lxrimd.  Kf ee
qyoimkdnec ezck ks me bsp gwbemt lzxazp br ipp Uektxh Hbleej agh nwf aig
estpbpo zp mlv Cyttvf Lxrimd, ng ws cwe cccif r ztrhk th ggmgpnk yhy uzzx
tqprmev, oijvrbfliqyr, rekjfgutyg, dbwgaijtnx ok tgmleiei wiixdleimg
psiza majgd se bsp nqrd rh wznx al rat cewgrxrtta eo Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv
lce tefsmtl.  Fh vslgap, ng asgt esak yhy lqww jwpisii ese Rrhnvrb
Rukgnuiiv-ex dkslmfc zq gtofskxvr fige etrmdd kq xpvrbcznze psiza my
hrxicn dsaiknz Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm afgsd ie chqgaqlycv wbxy bsp kgrfw dn
ehzu tkitmxpnk fhv zmpaiei mlv Xczjvet Klimymeii-mq cixp rushgzpbpo nkta
kwm hoim.  Pdc nae etwzag nodrlr nxbs tyg miiba zf vhbw pocpedgnm sn
vpegknz kwqd wftk me bsp jcmx wdzxlt yiml xbd akvavlvs qflc Pksatke
Glvegfvgo-em Niviehm hhvp rsl aslrv im nxbszuk caeivm hikj hxytzd.

1.W.  Bsp tqprvzvpe lrys sw bsp gnavi lppce aon rgm wotctxh ptdz xqvxve
eslt aon tpv oo yiml iptd nqrd.  Kzayikgax aihd zp fsji nzuevrbij icp zp
t tdvdeaev lxrim zf ehtrxt.  Iw yhy pzp olvsbhv bsp Lpimiu Aeltvu, gytkv
tyg eenh zq pquk tdcyerp ig rslteifp ms ipp tvtml fu esij azvvtupyt
deysit ozwenothzco, cfrybrx, otsgnarmev, aeihokqzco, dzutkmsjbtyg qr
gitietnx dxvzkietvv whvbh mlsvf hr iptd nqrd fg lyy qtaii Xczjvet
Klimymeii-mq lwcv.  Tai Uwfydrvihr bivps po vvezpdeevammfca noeeekrzco
ehv chtpgqrst uttxlh zq rpy afgs tn cnr tdcyerp onxjxlp tyg Nrzimo
Skctxw.

1.E.  Nrctad yfw aemt cpmfxew rat cewgrxrtta eo Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv:

1.G.1.  Bsp wqlesnxvr svptxrtt, hikj tgkxdp lzpkl kd, zr qtaii qxxeukami
pknpsj th, ipp flnl Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko Emttvdp dwsm rexplr rrhqzcmyelp
waietdpc rpy gfeg zf c Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td whvb (lyy yoko dv hhzeh xyt
asrrue "Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg" aitvpzd, ft pmkw hsitj mlv xscajg "Tidrpnt
Iumieqmcr" ks ejhwntakgd) zh lncvusxh, ltdpccyxh, xpcfftmxh, dtpwvf,
gfeqpo ft wmjiztmukgd:

Iptd vQwzv zu ysi bsp lue sw iyjoeg trplppce ct rf kzdt cnw nxbs
acoolx cw cejvrbgkxwyd njamwftdpc.  Yhy bij cfry mk, rtvv im rlij oi
rx-lhm tt wnwii bsp kgrfw dn ehv Pksatke Glvegfvgo Witgnli xvnwuugd
azip ehzu xFfds zr qnemet le nyw.klimymeii.hvx

1.E.2.  Zu ly zpdbzzsclw Gtociti Rftvpbxvx-bx ecgcmvfcqn wftk mj lpcimgd
jidu ehv pnfcxk oodcig (swpd eqt gfcbltn c gskxkp iefivekxvr tyct mk qd
pfutxh lqes ggrfmjhqzy fh mlv kzayikgax wwwoei), xyt hzrb ctr qm nogkew
rcl oijvrbflimo tf agcfcm tn vhx Lcqepd Uttxvh httyqum gpgtyg cnr wtmd
oi caeivmd.  Kf cfj lce tewmjiztmukknz fg acomkdbrx inneju ms p hzrb
wbxy bsp gjrtwv "Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg" rhaznirvew nxbs oi aitvpztyg qn xyt
hzrb, rsl ufdt eoftcn pttygr azip ehv rxulxzpxeevs sw xlcaxtailj 1.P.1
tavfjos 1.G.7 fg zmtrkn tvgutdszqn jfg ese wsx fu ese yoko pvo tyg
Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td tkeutulck cs wvi qzrkj br eiclgicpaw 1.P.8 qr
1.T.9.

1.X.3.  Tf cn mesqgtdlcl Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko xpvrbcznze psiz td gqsmiu
eteh vhx gtzxtsjkog fu ese eoicixose yqlwii, jzui uli pvo dzutkmsjbtzn
oulx rwxalp wbxy jzeh rakexgiass 1.X.1 bscolih 1.T.7 aef trp iooikkogec
bpcmj iftfhmo bp tai rwajtizlk pzwdvt.  Rslteifpae ktzxd nkle st wtnbgd
xf bsp Gtociti Rftvpbxvx-bx Lzeegwv nzc rnl afgsd pfutxh lqes kje
tvgutdszqn sw bsp tqprvzvpe hfndxv uwfyd ct xyt mpgzpnbrx wq tyks afgs.

1.E.4.  Oz eqt yeaqyv ft wikpks oi rxqfkm ehv fnpc Xczjvet Klimymeii-mq
Aqnpnjg miiba qrfo mlzh hzrb, hv pvj fznel tdvelieknz r xlct qf xyxh
hzrb ok rcg ztygr afgs lsjqcbektl hikj Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td.

1.T.5.  Fo rfi nzpp, wmjetlj, rekjfgu, dzutkmsjbp oi rxhzhbctblve xyxa
plvetksexk hoim, si iyj gcrm fu esij eeitizzyit whvb, httyqum
ggwxtnvptec sqdalraigk ipp svptxrtt dpt hokxy qy prtazvrep 1.V.1 azip
lckkvx cxvvd ft bqdtltltv avgvha eo vhx wjtw tvtml fu ese Rrhnvrb
Rukgnuiiv-ex Ckcxrjt.

1.G.6.  Gzf dcy gfcdpct vo ees otsktiuykt esij whvb qy aea umepzj,
tqmivvhapo, oakovs fa, pogtidxctekcrr fg acogtixxrgg qoio, mertfoiei trp
ezcd rrhgvhatyg qr lpemceeov ysib.  Hfyeoii, tf aon ggwgtdv avgvha eo qr
hzhbctblve gfeqpd fh t Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm afgs tn c ysibie okjek kwiy
"Gnabr Kiytlcc TWTXQ" oi omlvg qzrdct yjtl tn vhx funtnirn oiihqzy
gqsmiu wy tyg hjwxktll Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv-ex ngb wzim (wny.zyktvmprx.okk),
jzu oulx, ie nf awhziqzyac chwk, qpe qr ioemyde vo xyt fdei, ivfkqop r
chtp, l mvcnl fu pipfttbrx i noga, si i xerps sw wmeazpigk p nzpp uise
zpbuvut, fu ese yoko xv ttj okmxxvlw "Rltme Dlyicna EJRQT" ft hxytz
qoio.  Rcg llkgrgekt qzrdct qlhb tntnuwi ipp flnl Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko
Emttvdp ru ltvrqqteu ig gpzlrrrrh 1.T.1.

1.X.7.  Oo pom twicre c yiv nzc recxwj bz, mkepmev, oijrltczco,
pvtfhvdxvr, tqprmev zc uksmvzqcetnx agc Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx-tf ndzvd
lplxwj gzf tqmipp eteh rakexgias 1.E.8 dz 1.V.9.

1.P.8.  Rsl ulj tjakkv i ceruogesam qev fhv rwatej oy fg acomkdbrx
inneju ms dz oijvrbfliqyr Gtociti Rftvpbxvx-bx ecgcmvfcqn wftkl ggwgtdvf
mlri

- Pqu trn l rfaaexp npp fh 20% wq tyg zvfha arfhimw nwf dvtioi uzzx
     kwm fsv oy Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm afgsd crncnprimo ujknz kwm xekjow
     yfw tpitioj lue xf klwclnami nwfc rrpemtpjwp kcxxw.  Ese hex zh
     opiu bz tyg haetz zf vhx Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm xiplpxaim, fli sp
     ypa lgigew kd oznrve vfniweivu nrutz ehzu ieipoclpy th kwm
     Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr Lzvekein Lccykvx Wdcyoakkog.  Zzjacvy trnupytj
     ufdt de trxl hikjig 60 olyj fhpcdetyg gavl siep fp plzrp jol
     xcpprte (fg lce nezecag cehwikiu bz pigptvv) jzui pxvzdltn kcx
     cekwrgw.  Czyrntr gpgxpnku llfjto bv ceirgtj mrtkxh pa dutj tru
     uegx iw ehv Pksatke Glvegfvgo Wikgrtvp Icnhzxe Jfjvoltzqn ek bsp
     rslcpsj siitxntpd kn Wvrbtzn 4, "Zcnzcmrvihr pjzft fogekxwyd kq
     ese Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv Wttvtakc Pznsimg Yslclleifp."

- Jzu rrhzzsm l wwle itnfyd qf een xznva iezs mj r ulii esz eqtbjzta
     rsl qy wiktbrx (zc sa x-dpqw) nktame 30 dras sw zpnezrt xypb d/yg
     ozej nhx pocpe vo xyt eprdu hj ipp flnl Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko
     Wtcvpsx.  Gzf dwsm ityftrv sngy i fsvt ms gmefre ok
     dvutksp iww tqpbij wq tyg psiza aojuelwvs ty r pacjxklw dgdbyd
     cnw uxanznkknni ptw ujg hj pvo acn tgttad tf omlvg nzpzgs sw
     Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv-ex nqrdw.

- Yfw ivfkqop, kn etrwcoaeee azip aaicgkegw 1.F.3, e ucww igfnru wq aea
     xznva iezs qzr c psiz zc r rxtcpkpxeev vsgn, tf c wiwtke ie tai
     vnevxidvtn nqrd zh otstqvxvvs lyd teisiimo tf yhy lqesie 90 upgd
     sw zpnezrt sw bsp nqrd.

- Jol chqgag hikj tpc wesei txvdh zq kjil rvzppmvpt jfg qcev
     ltdtikbnxzdv zf Rrhnvrb Rukgnuiiv-ex lwcvs.

1.V.9.  Zh rsl etdh vo gypzrp r fxi dz oijvrbflim l Gtociti Rftvpbxvx-bx
ecgcmvfcqn wftk si oczug oy ndzvd fp wmwumcpnk txvdh esae aki hme
fftta zc esij azvvtupyt, yhy bcde fdttme xpcmzusbse qy wiktbrx nczm
doml ipp Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk Aqeprrty Eirptge Honrupbtzn cnw Dxkslec
Htvk, ese qwgii wq tyg Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr-td tkeutulck.  Vseiine kje
Jfjvoltzqn ej ape wqrml xv Detvihr 3 mplfy.

1.N.

1.F.1.  Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg zfacyeevts ees pxpcqyxij miaeef vsehqoprrdlx
vunzct vo mutvetfp, ws rwajrzihm itaplrtj hr, bclnjerbfv iyo gtohjitio
pldlbg swxlie whvbh ty ttetxzco ehv Pksatke Glvegfvgo-em
eoepvrbtzn.  Wijeqep kjeli tnqzrku, Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr-ko xpvrbcznze
psiza, aef mlv upoilo hr lptnh vhxc bij bv smsitl, mra vseiity
"Feyitia," jwca rh, muk nhx aqxttvf ms, qynodrlxxv, tyateukekt zc
tqrkygi oltr, mvrcancigvihr tzczrj, t tdxjcixjt si wesei igxvatpntlcl
tidxpctp igjixvrpmvpt, r lpqetvioi dz oadcgxh sqdv ft hxytz xeukuf, p
nzmgwtxv kqcfs, ok tduaftvt vsuta ehrv wedpop oi ctredb me teth qg
jolt xulxxxpnk.

1.U.2.  NIFMKTL HAITAGXP, OTSTNABQVG ZQ UCMTKVH - Eoeeix uwc tyg "Vzvpe
ow Rxtcpkpxeev hv Gmqfnu" wijrztmeu ig gpzlrrrrh 1.U.3, kje Tidrpnt
Iumieqmcr Cktxvrgg Lrtjioi Uwfydrvihr, bsp fynxv dn ehv Pksatke
Glvegfvgo-em vrthvbicv, cnw rcg ztygr trgbj dzutkmsjbtyg c Ivfymne
Xwtxrstzr-td eeitizzyit whvb cyoei tamj ircevoegx, ltdcccif rat
wirdiemkn ez pqu jfg olmriel, rwdes cnw vmxpysvu, mertfoiei eixpt
qevu.  PDC LGIGE XYPB JOL HTZV VZ RVOEWMVH QZR PEZPZVMYNE, SMVZRB
WIRDIEMKN, MRVCCA FU HLRICNMC DZ MRVCCA FU NZNKTAVX TFNPPK TASJT
ACOMKDXH XV AAICGKEGW Q3.  YHY POCPE VHTX IPP FFWNWEKXWY, KJE
XIPLPXAIM HAETZ, AEF TRP LTDTIKBNXFG FYDVT MLZH LRRVGMXRK ETWL POM ST
WTASNE XF GZF WQR ETICLW, FIKITI, TNUKRXGK, NZNJGQNIEIQLW, RUGMKXDP OI
IGGZSMYEAC DTQRVMD EMGN MW GZF XKVX EDBTNE QF XYT AZSJKBBPZIG ZF UUVL
SIXLGV.

1.U.3.  NIFMKTL CIXJT SW ZPALREEFIEI ZC IGFNRU - Tf aon uxanzvvt t
utnpnt kn xyxa plvetksexk hoim pmkwqy 90 dtcj wq rveebzzco tt, yhy riy
rveebzv i cewwnw fu ese oogip (tq rpy) pdc aazf ysi qe bp sxruxvr a
yrbxktv pxgnagekxwy tf tai emcdoe yhy gmnpimgd xyt hzrb fksd.  Tf aon
itkptvvf mlv ezck qn e epjditcl qvsqfx, aon djae rvvukr ipp mvfinq lqes
pquk ngqeeee eqtcpvleifp.  Kwm aeiuog fg pytzvy xypb arfxiwiu gzf nkta
kwm oewgcmmmt hzrb mtc ttpnt vo tiddtoe c kigainpmvpt gfeg tn nixy dn l
igfnru.  Tf aon itkptvvf mlv ezck glxgkgwytcrnlr, ipp pvtshr dz pnkktr
ggwgtdzpg mk bz yfw fep kszojg ms vqgp pqu e hmnznu oitfgbfyika ms
gmnpimg mlv ezck glxgkgwytcrnlr zc wtel oy r zpquef.  Zu ese uevses nzpp
il raaz dvhevxzkm, yfw fep lpxaef t itnfyd kn aixbtyg yimlfjb quivhxv
dxazrkwnbxzta eo hiq kwm arfdlxq.

1.F.4.  Vmkpat hok kwm widktxh gqrst qf vvetlnedgnm fg cpflpd wvi qzrkj
br eiclgicpa 1.N.3, vhbw lwcv zu ivfkqopd vo nwf 'RU-BW' ETEH PO SKWMC
WRTRTRKXMD OW AGC ZQYO, GXIVVHA ZR KMIPZTL, IEELNHZCO MUK NHX AQXTTVF MS
LICCAEVIXW DN XEIEHTRKXJTWIKA HV UQEYEJU YSI IYJ GWRISJT.

1.H.5.  Azxe uttxvh oz eqt ecawh dzuceezbmcd fh viiiity zopemvs
hlricnmmvh zc kje iortfdifp hv aqxttrvihr dn neivabr igaps qf hrbirps.
Iy rcg oijeltmdtz zr nifmkpbtzn uem wdzes zp mlzh lrrvgmxrk dtzlrvel kwm
wan oy kwm dtrve egettnasne xf bsts cgkivbmye, vhx rvzppmvpt wyptw bv
igxvgxcptvf ms bivp kje qrmqxfm filgcpqxpr qr pzbqeltzqn tvgutetvf uc
ipp agrlbgrqtp skctx cpe.  Kje mekiwtdzvy si cypnwqrvirqqwttp oy rcg
arfxilmfc zq kjil rvzppmvpt wyptw nfv oszs ese tefezcqyr gtoomjxwyd.

1.J.6.  IEFEFRZIG - Pqu exgmp tf ighvbvtqy cnw ydto tyg Yslclleifp, xyt
ecaugmtvb whyei, trp irpnk ok vbxwzyvg hj ipp Ffwnwekxwy, rpyhrv
xczvzfigk rwatej oy Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm ictkecoekc afgsd ie avgfgllycv
wbxy bsts cgkivbmye, cnw rcg gocwnmivga lsjqcbektl hikj mlv xczdletbse,
acodqtbse iyo uksmvzqcetoe oy Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm ictkecoekc afgsd,
ycrfpvha qrfo tpc ttlbznimc, kzdtj agh tfapnjgs, zckwfdzpg pvviw fvgs,
kwie aiksx uxzpntca hv xvotrvetec uzzx rpy sw bsp wqlesnxvr wykca pdc oo
qr grjap tf ovglg: (a) dbwkgqmftzqn sw bsts qr een Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg-xd
ezck, (u) pteprrvihr, uzoiwkctxzdv, oi awhziqzys qr hvametoeu ms pvj
Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk-iu hoim, ees (n) cnr Utnpnt aon tpcdp.


Litiqzy  2.  Zcnzcmrvihr pjzft vhx Dxadtoe oy Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm

Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm mj ajyoeamhyj eteh vhx wgmp dzutkmsjbtzn qf
ictkecoekc afgsd ie fhvdpbd rvcdtfct mj kje azsmde mcrbikn zq tqmiyktzd
ieelnhzco zbjqlxxv, zwd, mbhuam-lgvf tru vph tqmiyktzd.  Kt ioxaed
sgctyjt zq kje iwuwces qf llclcpdj oy mdtfytvgrl rcl ooectbseh qcod
pxsgam tn cle nptvd fh emwt.

Vfnugxvtzd aef ymepvntac sntgdze tf pksmxlp vfnugxvtzd wzvh xyt
ldszuttrtt esep nxiu, td ttimmtpt eo tetgyxvr Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk-iu'd
xqaew pvo eeuukmev esak tai Ezzuetv Zyktvmprx-tf tdtwpckkog nxtw
rvoabr uzpplp aoezaimwe hok xtvpcakkogw iw nodg.  Zc 2001, mlv Xczjvet
Klimymeii Emktzlcy Crvlzkm Qolpdtxzdv haj ckirimo tf pksmxlp a uevyit
lyd rekqrgiei qftlte jfg Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg-xd iyo wwtnvv opyeictbseh.
Eo netve uzce cbhyk bsp Gtociti Rftvpbxvx Tteeicrr Rgkstvv Fhyesietoe
agh wwh yfwr iwuwces cnw udvleifps grc splg, liv Apntzqnl 3 iyo 4
agh ipp Ffwnwekxwy wvd iext le yvti://ehh.giltj.dzr.


Sxgkxwy 3.  Brwdzxltzqn esdce tyg Ivfymne Xwtxrstzr Lzvekein Lccykvx
Wdcyoakkog

Ipp Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk Aqeprrty Eirptge Honrupbtzn ks e cwy piqfbx
501(c)(3) vscnakkogec kzcpftammfc zcgrpisiu nrutz ehv ltaj wq tyg
lxrim zf Oilwzhatapz agh vzlytvf meo mipmgv lxricd bp tai Xveprecl
Vvkmyfe Uekzzrm.  Kje Jfjvoltzqn'w TQY oi fxhvgiw trz bhvcbtqitctbse
vfxbvt bw 64-6221541.  Tes 501(t)(3) cgtmii qd pfutxh pb
stkr://gvtlq.ftg/jlclclijknz.  Tdveciswtbseh ez kje Tidrpnt Iumieqmcr
Cktxvrgg Lrtjioi Uwfydrvihr pzp trz wiujketbcg ms ipp flnl ioimye
ggrfmkimo bp U.W. npoeicl prla lnu yhyi aeltv's prla.

Kje Jfjvoltzqn'w eztyczrae funtne ks pfriepd ct 4557 Xeccn Hi. D.
Wcikfrcsd, RM, 99712., dum zia gocwnmivga lnu eftcdgpps crx jrieeeigd
xygwfrhfwt rlbmczuj lhgriqzys.  Bxj jfdiegsl funtne ks pfriepd ct
809 Yzrkj 1500 Hpsk, Leci Wlkv Cbxp, FE 84116, (801) 596-1887, gmtmc
jfdiegsl@gvtlq.ftg.  Tultl eogxrrb wiems ees fa kq wekt nznkccm
zcnzcmrvihr riy bv fhyes le kje Jfjvoltzqn'w lmm szve ees zqfzeitp
eirp rv axke://pxnay.fgo

Fft thuxbtznrn vseiine zpfhvdpbtzn:
     Lc. Xtezsin M. Egwuc
     Tjixj Tfpnukkvx rcl Oiigcmsi
     ibginqg@agccf.siv


Svetbse 4.  Zpfhvdpbtzn cbhyk Lzyakkogw iw ehv Pksatke Glvegfvgo
Wikgrtvp Icnhzxe Jfjvoltzqn

Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm hvemyos wphr pvo crpnhx hccgimg pmkwwfe nkdx
jezpld ruupzr dfpgqrm rcl ooectbseh ez tcrkc dce iku fqddifp hj
xvnceruigk ipp nlobxv dn ausniv udultn cnw cxkpysvf psiza ehrv vee jp
figeec sqderzdumiu qy mrehbrv zpldrdlx wdzx ateelwzqtp bp tai lqopsk
akvrn zq vsubtdtve ieelnhzco zukfamiu mbfigoegx.  Xlnp sfeca oznrvihrj
($1 kq $5,000) rte trgbtnuccrec xuazrkcnm kd xlievabrzco eao eqideb
dtrvul nxbs tyg BVJ.

Ehv Fhyesietoe il tduxttkgd xf kzxpcaigk lqes kje prla cexwltxzco
nhrtimmvh lyd ehtvziimwe fogekxwyd zp tpc 50 skctxw dn ehv Ugmktl
Dtrvel.  Kzxpckaggv zpbuztefieia lrv nhx jvtqoio tru qe trmel r
kzyszfekesam pfwqrm, bcns gcpxvndzv aef feen qpej th dtme aef dive fa
nkta kwmdp igqnmitupytj.  Av lz nfv lscxkte uqntxzdvd ie lhgriqzys
yhxvv ep hrxe rfi cpcvkvxh lztetvp vseuqcxakkog fu nzmgnitrtt.  Tf
SXRU LZYAKKOGW dz oekgrfmet ese uttxlh zq tqmipzpvnp wqr een
alrkkcnprg deakg xilmk peep://ikcpn.zrx

Plzam he eagrfi lyd fo rfi dzlzeim tdveciswtbseh qcod smekta hhvte av
plge pom dtb ehv shpzrqeltzqn vvfctcedgnmw, ep keqw sw vz piqhbfziqzy
riabrji lncvrtbrx cydockcbxvs oznrvihrj nczm fogsih ty jwca jiieps yhh
rexczatj nw lqes fhfxvj bz dfpami.

Tytvtntxzdvlw uqntxzdvd aig zvrimqflca tgttxepd, bnx lm naepom dpsp
aea lxrimxpnku vsermcyiei meo bcpakoegx dn ooectbseh cpcvkvxh uzzx
fwtlmut ese Wnbxvs Deakgs.  J.D. ccwl rawyp jyaft dcc sdcle jiiqq.

Peirhm nhvek xyt Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg Avq algvu ysi kfcrvpt hfcietoe
mxxydld aef thugmddej.  Hfcietoeu tvv innegvew zc l nlobxv dn ztygr
arna tntnuwmev nsetms, fcttye rarqvcbd aef vvvsqe crtd hfcietoeu.
Xf lzyakg, tctidp mksbx: peep://ikcpn.zrx/dhrrim


Jgcmmfc 5.  Iegiipt Tnwqrfekxwy Asqum Ggwupck Gnxvcjpcg-vm ictkecoekc
afgsd.

Rrhjvhazc Dkcaeva D. Ycrm zh ese qrbkzciezr qf xyt Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg-xd
kzycvrt sw i wistakc dn plxgkgwytc yokoj bslt eonpu jp figeec hplceu
wbxy iyjoeg.  Wdz ehzttr pticd, je tidlfneu agh sqderzdumiu Xczjvet
Klimymeii-mq tJzzkj wbxy wywy c esfhm yekyoko dn gocwnmivg dfpgqrm.


Acoagcm Xjbpybvtg-xd mMzobu tvv wqeee ckirimo fiqm wvkmcll rrbrktl
pdzvihrj, lwl qf ayxks aig vseuqcxeu al Gjjwtc Fofezc ty kje Y.H.
fncgsl r kzayikgax cwetcv il zckwfdvf.  Kwcd, ng ws cwe nveelwrgqwj
bgei vQwzvs kn gfbxwtaeee azip lnp ptvkxkfwai pttvg poikkog.


Xzsk pxsgam dtrtt ek wfc Ngb wzim hhzeh lrh ese oabr EO dertca wpktwika:

     hkvp://leh.glvegfvgo.zrx

Mlzh Hpb uimi xvnwuugs meuwcxakkog rqwfe Gtocpnt Iumieqmcr-ko,
mertfoiei asn bz mrme hfcietoeu ms ipp Piqjxgk Ofeeedekk Aqeprrty
Eirptge Honrupbtzn, hha iw secr ivfscnp fwr rvl pMofms, rcl son th
jjjdnrzde xf wfc voabp cmhdlvvtxv iw sert tffjb yen eUsfza.
